15/02/2000

Statement by the First Secretary

The First Secretary (Rhodri Morgan):
Thank you, Llywydd, and thank you all for
nominating me as the second First Secretary
of the National Assembly for Wales.
My first act in the Welsh jersey with the
captain’s armband is to reappoint the Cabinet
under Standing Order No. 2.4 in their present
portfolios, including myself. That is without
prejudice to the normal procedure for
choosing a Cabinet. If I did not reappoint the
Cabinet, in accordance with Standing Order
No. 2.4, there would be no Cabinet. I will
make a further announcement about that
matter in due course as well as, possibly in
consultation with other parties, an
announcement about Assembly structures and
portfolios. That may take some months to
arrange, given all the consultations through
which one needs to go.
I return, after getting that technicality out of
the way, to the tremendous emotion, honour
and privilege that I feel in having been
elected, selected, and appointed by you to be
First Secretary of the National Assembly for
Wales. I start by paying a huge tribute to my
predecessor, Alun Michael. Nobody could
have worked harder for Wales than Alun, and
nobody with an ounce of humanity could have failed to be moved by the dignity that he
showed last week, and is still showing now,
under the circumstances in which he lost
office. He has, with your consent, handed on
the baton of devolution to me, but history
will record how he carried that baton himself
with immense distinction.
Thank you Alun, and thank you for your help
and kindness to me.
It falls to me to carry forward the momentum
of devolution. The Assembly needs a period
of calm and continuity while we move on
from the dramatic events of last week.
Nobody in the Assembly would disagree with
the proposition that we cannot allow the
culling of First Secretaries, as happened last
week, to become Wales’s annual bloodsport.
To that end, I confirm that my number one
aim as First Secretary is to survive until the
half-term recess at the end of this week.
You will be familiar with the phrase, ‘Three
tries for a Welshman’, and you will be aware
that this is the third try for me. I had two tries
before the Assembly was set up and now
extraordinary circumstances have resulted in
my standing before you as First Secretary.
During the past two and a half years since I
put my name forward as a potential candidate
for leadership for Labour I have given a great
deal of thought to how I would do this job if I
ever had the opportunity. Now that the First
Secretary’s job has fallen to me, I am
privileged that it has come in the very month
that the Labour Party celebrates its centenary.
Wales has played an important part in the
history of the Labour Party. The traditions of
democratic socialism have played a huge role
in Wales’s political life since the founding of
the Labour Party. Labour is generally
accepted as the largest political party in
Wales, sometimes the majority political
party, although perhaps not recently.
However, something about the Labour side’s
attempts during the past hundred years has
appealed strongly to the people of Wales. It is
encapsulated mostly in what is called, in Millbank speak, the politics of the many not
the few. In Wales we call them ‘y werin, nid
y crachach’—the common people, not the
elite. There is something about that that has
huge appeal to people in Wales. Somehow, I
could never get Millbank spin doctors to
accept ‘y werin, nid y crachach’ as a phrase
to be broadcast on Channel 4 and the BBC’s
nine o’clock news.
I want to inspire our voters with a vision of
devolution and democratic politics that
involves people in the democratic process of
rebuilding the bond between politicians of all
parties—in particular my own—and the
people of Wales. We should all be concerned
about political cynicism, apathy, low turnout
and low voter participation and interest in
politics. I know that there are many other
interesting things in life. There is
consumerism. There is sport on Saturdays.
These things can make people think that
politics rate at around number 57 in their
interests. That is fair enough. Not everybody
is an anorak about politics. Not everybody
dragged their mother to political meetings at
the age of 11 to see Dorothy Rees, a Labour
MP, attempting unsuccessfully to save the
Vale of Glamorgan constituency in 1951,
although I was also interested in sport and
other things.
Not everybody is like the 60 of us in the
Assembly. We, who are interested in politics
and are lucky enough to make a living out of
it, must somehow connect with the people for
whom politics is either a bore, a turn-off or
something that used to interest them. That is
not a Welsh, British or European problem.
North America probably has the worst
problem. However, if there is anything that
we can do as Assembly Members to
reconnect the voters of Wales with the new
institution that we have set up, then it is our
duty to do it. It is all very well for British
voters to be cynical about the Houses of
Parliament or 10 Downing Street, which is a
rock solid institution. People are born with it.
Their grandparents were born with it. That
institution is 800 years old. If people are
cynical about an institution that is only eight
months old, then we have a problem. All of
us need to bend our efforts to try to solve that
problem.
The Assembly has had a difficult start in
terms of the narrowness of the victory in the
referendum and the low turnout in the
elections. The 46 or 47 per cent turnout in
those May 1999 elections looks respectable
compared with some of the elections since
then. Nevertheless, voter turnout is important
to us. To ensure that voters take the interest
that they should in what is the only institution
that delivers for the people of Wales, we
must connect with them and provide the
services that they want. Although we are the
anoraks—the people who make a living from
and who are involved in devolution full
time—ultimately, devolution is about them
and not us. It is fair to say that, in many
ways, voters think that we have spent too
much time squabbling and not enough time
delivering.
I was lucky as a young man, as any of you
who saw my mother’s wonderful
performance on Y Byd ar Bedwar last night
will know. I was able to attend quite posh
universities when I was young. Many young
people of my generation did not get that
opportunity of entering higher education.
Inevitably, if you did have the chance to enter
higher education, you left Wales and you
never returned. That was the Welsh catch22—if you wanted to get on, you had to get
out. We must solve that problem in Wales.
What contribution have we in Wales made to
civilisation? I am not just thinking about
Labour figures here. I think, with great pride,
about Keir Hardie who—although he was a
Scotsman—was the first Labour MP, the first
leader of the Labour Party and an MP for
Merthyr and Aberdare. Lloyd George made a
huge contribution in giving us the old-age
pension and other aspects of the welfare state
in the early years of the last century. Jim
Griffiths established national insurance and
Nye Bevan adapted the Tredegar medical
self-help system, with which he grew up, and
gave it to Great Britain as the first free-at-thepoint-of-access national health service. I wonder whether any small nation anywhere
in the world has contributed as much as
Wales. We have established what we are
proud to call the cornerstones of civilisation
in Great Britain today. Those giants: Lloyd
George from north Wales, Jim Griffiths from
west Wales, and Nye Bevan from east Wales,
had dreams about how to improve society.
They all came from Wales and are no
different to us. If they could do it, so can we.
Now that we have our own institution, which
can be a democratic vehicle to improve the
lives of the people of Wales, it is up to us to
help them and to give them the right to dream
their dreams and to use the Assembly as a
vehicle to improve their lives.
The language in which we discuss politics
can be a big turn off. I do not refer to Welsh
and English language issues, but to the third
language—jargon, which is perhaps the great
peril. We need a language to which voters
can relate, not just politicians, specialists,
lobbyists and the practitioners of politics. If,
when we talk about social exclusion, we
mean poor living and working conditions,
then let us say so. If we can state the problem
in plain language that people outside can
understand, then we have a greater chance of
tackling it.
We must also consider the Assembly’s
structure after last week’s incidents. There is
an interesting variable geometry in this
Assembly. No party has a majority. We must
see how we can provide the political stability
that the Assembly needs to deliver the
services that Wales needs. We must do that
without giving the majority party carte
blanche to do stupid things and expect to get
away with it, because this is a body
accountable to the people of Wales.
However, I hope that we would all agree that
the time has come to stop marking out the
pitch and start playing the game. I want a
wide game using our powers to the full,
taking on the forces of conservatism, apathy
and bureaucracy. I want to release the talents
of all Assembly Members and the 2,500 civil
servants who work for us, to work towards
the vision of a better Wales. We must uncork the Welsh champagne bottle and let it fizz.
I want to celebrate the talent and diversity of
the people of Wales. I say that in a multicultural context. I had a wonderful welcome
from the Swansea Chinese community at the
Brangwyn Hall last Sunday morning and my
constituency, Cardiff West, has people of
many different ethnic origins. Tim
Williams—one of my biggest fans according
to Y Byd ar Bedwar last night—when
involved with Nick Bourne and others in the
No campaign, always used to refer to my
constituency with the utmost contempt as
containing ‘pobl Pontcanna’—the devolution
groupies who had dreamt up the whole thing
which was of no interest to anybody else in
Wales. However, last night he seemed to be
fully reconciled to the project and in fact now
thinks that the Assembly should have more
powers. Good old Tim, he may be one of the
great fair-weather friends of modern Wales.
However, it was interesting to hear him last
night.
We must stop thinking in terms of how
Welsh people are. I was thinking the other
day of the occasion when a distinguished
member of the present Government stayed
overnight with us in Michaelston-le-Pit—I
am not talking now about Tony Blair. We
were driving across the Ynys Bridge by the
Taff gorge and I pointed out to her that the
area was still in the catchment area of
Whitchurch Grammar School, where I went
to school, but was also the dividing line
between what was known as ‘the Welsh
accent’ and the Cardiff area. The small
handful of children from Tongwynlais and
Gwaelod-y-garth who used to attend
Whitchurch Grammar School were always
known as the taffs. My guest looked totally
bewildered at that and said ‘you are all taffs
to us you know’. That is true. We see
artificial divisions within Wales but outside
Wales we are all considered Welsh. That is
how I see the Assembly: regardless of what
party we are in, whether we voted yes or no
in the referendum or did not vote at all, we
are all in the same boat. We have the
Assembly; we will not get another one. This
is our institution and we must make it work better for all the people of Wales.
I have spoken of an operation phoenix for my
own party. However, it applies equally to the
National Assembly for Wales. We can and
must arise from the ashes, or whatever you
want to call the peculiar events of last week.
Some people have chosen to interpret our
first few months as the beginning of the end
of devolution, to borrow a phrase from
another famous politician from Nick
Bourne’s party. However, I regard now as the
end of the beginning of devolution and I hope
all of us do so as well.
I believe in the power of democracy to
improve the lives of our people in Wales. We
can make it work much better for the people
of Wales. It is our Assembly. It does not
belong to us, the 60 Members, but to the 3
million people in Wales. Therefore, we
should work together to see what we can do
to work better for them all. [Applause.]

 Social inclusion is one
of the three major themes running through
the plan and it has guided policy and action
on everything from the economy to health. In
my acceptance speech, I acknowledged that
there is a case for saying that we should not
talk about social inclusion or social
exclusion. That is new speak for poverty.
Actions to remedy poverty should involve
redistribution. We should cut the waffle and
call it, and our remedial actions, what they
really are. The problem with being too radical
in doing that is that it tends to make you
think of all the things that are not devolved to
the Assembly, such as taxation and the
benefit system. Those are areas that have not
been devolved to the Assembly. There is
some sort of case for using a different
language that concentrates more on what we
can do.
I would today like to commend the brilliant
projects that are found in some of our most
deprived communities, but not in enough of
those communities. If there were 100
deprived communities in Wales, there is
probably a brilliant community self-help
project taking place in five or 10 of those
communities. If only there was in 90 of those
communities the same sort of projects that you can find in the Rhondda and Cynon
valleys, and the kind of project that I saw in
Wrexham’s Higher Park estate. We must
spread best practice from those projects so
that every community has a self-help project.
It has to be self-help. We can only facilitate.
We cannot order communities as to how they
should better themselves.
 I will make a statement
on that issue later and, therefore, the question
of whether there should or should not be a
Cabinet member for the Valleys must be left
in abeyance until that time.
 Social inclusion or lack
of financial ability to participate in higher
education will be relevant to some students. It
would not normally be considered as relevant
but I understand and sympathise with
Jonathan’s case. The use of access funds
would be seen as the right solution to
individual problems in terms of access to
higher education for those from less well-off
families. There may be cases or categories of
students that Jonathan wants to discuss,
which could be brought to the attention of
Tom Middlehurst or myself. The question of
tuition fees and grants, which has been a
burning issue in Scotland, is not devolved to
us. It would be difficult to involve that issue in the kind of inquiry that Jonathan
mentioned. If we can do anything to help
open up access to higher education,
vocational education and lifelong learning for
people from less well-off areas, communities
or families, we will try to help, provided that
it is within the Assembly’s powers.
 I do not wish to go into
detail this afternoon about how we can agree
on improvements in the structure. However, I
accept the basic principle to which Ieuan
referred, which is that I want to encourage
the 60 of us to take a greater part in
developing policy, especially regarding the
schemes throughout Wales which cross-cut
subjects that are traditionally considered as
separate subjects. We are trying to bring them
together, therefore there will be an
opportunity for people from every party—
including Rod who has no party—to
contribute in any possible way towards the
process of turning the principles into actions
that can improve the situation of people who
do not live in prosperous areas of Wales.
It depends on how you
resolve the old issue of the special needs of
special needs children, preserving the
principle of mainstreaming special needs
children, providing them with the additional
provision that they need without stigmatising
that provision because it is special for those
children. You cannot always do that.
Children with severe special needs probably
need to be catered for separately. One would
want to consider parental views as well as
those of specialists in those circumstances.
Children with mild special educational needs
can be dealt with via mainstreaming.
However, we must try to solve any problems
with the statementing procedure which
ensures that parents have the right to decide if
they want their children to be in mainstream
education with additional provision or in
separate provision because they believe that
their children’s special needs are so great that
they should not be dealt with via mainstream
provision
As a general principle,
I mentioned that parental rights are very
important. That is true here as well.
Sometimes bodies misunderstand what
parents say about this issue and somehow
believe that one size fits all. In my
experience, parents of special needs children
divide into those who want their children
mainstreamed, with special assistance, and
those who do not want their children
mainstreamed because they believe that their children cannot cope. It is not good simply to
say that one size fits all.
Dafydd has made an
interesting point regarding resources and also
location. Children can be classified in at least
four categories: those who stay in the same
class with an additional teacher; those who
go to a unit to deal with special educational
needs, within the same school, but separate;
those who go to a school that is separate but
next door to a usual school, so that at least
the pupils can see each other and, perhaps,
play together in some circumstances; and
those who go to a separate school. What
parents want and what the educational
psychologist recommends is important: you
cannot say that every child must follow the
great mainstreaming principle in order to
avoid stigma. I am in favour of avoiding
stigma, but even so, the provision that suits
the child is important, not a principle.
I cannot comment on
an individual school that you have visited and
I have not. However, the situation you have
described does not sound ideal by any means.
It would not fit into the category of
mainstreaming, in anyone’s definition,
because clearly it claims to provide a good
facility, but it sounds in fact as if the school
is physically unsuitable, presumably due to
the nature of the site. However, I cannot say
anything further about that particular school
without knowledge of it.
I cannot make
promises from this podium today, having just
been appointed, on additional resources for
any area of expenditure, even one that
engages our personal and political
sympathies. Jenny, you may know of units
that are inadequate, are poor substitutes and
not real special needs education. You should draw them to my attention or to that of the
Secretary with responsibility for education.
On units, and provided that the unit is a
proper unit within a school, they at least
mean that children walk to school together—
if they can walk—which therefore means
better social integration for the child, rather
than social separation. As I said, if there are
problems with units about which you know, I
would like to hear about them. I do not think
that one should condemn any particular
method of special needs education. It should
be about trying to make sure that whatever
the statement says is suitable for that child is
provided. That is when you bump up against
the resource limit. However, if a unit with
proper resourcing is available, that may well
be the most suitable provision for a child. I
do not think that one should condemn it in
advance.
Alun Michael and I
have had regular meetings with the Secretary
of State for Wales, both in my former post
and since my caretaker elevation to First
Secretary, to discuss all the issues relating to
Wales, the Treasury and the financial
obligations of Objective 1. You could call
this a political example of Murphy’s Law. If
it had not been for the events of last week and
today, with me becoming First Secretary, I
would have now been on my way to London
for my first meeting with Andrew Smith, the
Chief Secretary to the Treasury, at 5.30 p.m.
this afternoon. That is now impossible and I will therefore meet him for the first time to
discuss this subject the week after next.
 I have not commanded
the Prime Minister and the Chancellor of the
Exchequer to alter the timing of the
comprehensive spending review, although
First Secretary of the National Assembly for
Wales is an important post. However, I will
certainly be pressing the Chief Secretary to
the Treasury on the fact that European funds
should be considered outside of the normal
Barnett formula, and therefore above and
beyond the block that we would otherwise
receive.
 This must have been in
Sunday’s The Observer and not in
yesterday’s, or was it in the Pontypridd and
Llantrisant Observer? I did not read the
article to which Phil refers, but I understand
the background. We are represented at the
meetings with the three Objective 1 areas in
England, namely south Yorkshire,
Merseyside and Cornwall. We take a full part
with them in discussing all the possibilities of
using the money in the most creative manner to create all kinds of new jobs and wealth in
those areas that need it so much.
 I am pleased that Nick
has taken upon himself the role of what is
known in the business as the mystery
shopper; the barium meal in hospital terms.
We always took the view that an Assembly
politician would try out the hotline and at
some stage the hotline arrangements would
break down. Obviously you rung at that time.
I shall make inquiries and try to ensure that
prompt and relevant information is provided
to everyone, not excluding Assembly party
leaders, when they ring the hotline.
 I do not disagree. It is
an important principle that local authorities in
all Welsh Objective 1 areas take the initiative
in forming local partnerships, but do not run
the whole show. Once they have taken the
initiative and made contact with partners in
the business world and the voluntary sector, they must withdraw slightly to a one-third
role to enable the private sector and the
voluntary sector to each have a third of a
stake in the wider sense of that word. Then
everybody knows that it is not a matter of
leaving it to the council. The council may
have made the first contact and provided the
meeting facilities, but if the private sector and
the voluntary sector are not equally engaged,
the partnership principle breaks down.
I cannot give specific
details on changing direction with the
Treasury, but the negotiations will continue
for a further five or six months until the
comprehensive spending review is over. The
negotiating tactics may change during those
six months as a result of whatever resistance
the Treasury puts up. It is never easy to get
money out of the Treasury nor would it be
proper if it was easy to do so. I hope that I
have learnt lessons in trying to get money out
of Edwina Hart which will prove useful to me
in trying to get money out of Gordon Brown
and Andrew Smith.
Longer outpatient
waiting lists clearly have some impact
because someone who is well off has the
alternative of going private while someone
who is not well off does not. In Wales and,
echoing what I said earlier, in the land of
Aneurin Bevan, going private is not an option
as Government policy. If there was evidence
that hospital waiting lists were lengthening or
increased waiting time for a first outpatient
appointment was becoming a serious problem
in terms of equity of access I would take it
seriously. I do not believe that is so yet. It is a
serious problem but not in terms of equity of
access. It is a problem for everybody. I do not
think that there is a tendency in Wales to
believe that expanding private health care is
an option which then eases pressure on the
national health service for those who cannot
afford private health care. If that is the line
behind his question it is not an option that we
would want to follow.
 There is a huge amount
of sympathy with the intellectual case that
waiting times are better than numbers on
lists. However, if we were suddenly to
announce that waiting lists do not matter but
waiting times do, David Melding would be
the first to leap up and say ‘You have
abandoned an election commitment’. It is in
the nature of combative politics in a
democratic society that one balances election
commitments, made before the Assembly
was established, and ensures continuity
between those and the election manifesto
commitments that were made in the run up to
the Assembly elections themselves. There is
a strong intellectual case that waiting times
are more important than lists. We would like
to see progress on both fronts. Then we
would not have this kind of programme. 
 I do not intend to make
any amendments to the document ‘A Better
Wales’. There is no intention to refer
differently to the beds target in the document.
There are several
issues here. In the light of events taking place
at the other end of the M4 today, one can say
that the voice of young people in Wales has
not been heard in the past and will be heard
in the future. I cannot say more than that,
because of other events that will take place in
another democratic assembly at the other end
of the M4. The important thing about the
representation of young people and young
people’s involvement in the political process
is that it must not be only the better-off
young people that take part. It needs to be
people from rich, middling and poor
backgrounds, from whatever kind of family
background or community they live in.
Whatever their postal code, they must be
equally involved and know that the
Assembly, the political process and their
local town council involvement in voluntary
groups and trade unions, is something that we
want to encourage, so that they do not
become disaffected, unclubbable youth. That
commitment was made very strongly when
Alun Michael launched Young Voice/Llais
Ifanc on 7 September.
All of us who took part
in the elections in May 1999, thought that the
Assembly would take a long time to become
fully established, but we did it for the benefit
of the next generation, and the generation
after that, in Wales. We knew that, initially,
people would still be orientated to thinking
about the House of Commons, the British
Government, and 10 Downing Street as the
source of power and authority, with perhaps
some idea about local councils. We knew that
it would take a long while before there was
any kind of equal attention and esteem
attributed to whatever happened in the
Assembly. However, for the younger
generation it seems that this is a legitimate
hope. If we can engage their attention by
speaking their language and making
provision for them to become involved in the
building of a new civil society in Wales, then
we can expect that the Assembly, and other
bodies as well, will be equally worthy of their
attention in years and in generations to come
 Yes. The Assembly’s purpose is to create a better future for the
whole of society. The future generation will
benefit most from anything that we do to
strengthen our economy and improve our
health service. They will benefit first and
most from any improvement that we can
make in delivering our services for the people
of Wales. There are 3 million people living in
Wales. They are not all young. However, the
future generation will be the one that will
most see the strength that we can create in
our economy and society
That is a huge
achievement, which will raise Wales’s
profile, particularly among young people. It
is not only young people who are interested
in the film industry, but this will have a
dramatic effect on our credibility as we
attempt to build a bigger media industry in
Wales. I know only the names of the actors
that Jonathan mentioned and I saw the brief
piece that looked forward to the nomination
procedure at 8 a.m. The happy event to which
Jonathan referred had not taken place then.
I commend the producers, backers and
whoever was involved in producing a Welshlanguage film that is sufficiently commercial,
skilful, professional, exciting and cultural to
convince the moguls of Hollywood that it is
worthy of an Oscar nomination. That is not
chicken feed—it is a difficult task to achieve,
even though this film is, presumably, in the
special non-English language category.
Nevertheless, that is a huge achievement and
I hope that we can build on it in the future.
 I have no opposition to
that idea. It is an excellent idea on the
condition that that is what young people
want. It is their choice. If they see it as
relevant to build a local basis for the idea of
having some kind of local or regional council
in the north, the west, the Valleys or
wherever, I do not mind. It is a matter for
them. However, I encourage the idea that
they learn how to take part in debate and
decision-making to build the kind of civic
service that we all want. If that is what young
people want, I would be happy to help.
There are difficulties
with the Government of Wales Act 1998, as I
understand it, because of the first line that
specifies that we are a body corporate and
independent in the full meaning of that
phrase. I have had preliminary talks and
discussions with the Presiding Officer and the
Permanent Secretary about avoiding the
repetition of that problem last week regarding
ensuring independent legal advice or what
approaches independent legal advice. I have
told the Presiding Officer that if we can take
action to double the thickness of the Chinese
wall around him and the advice that he
receives, so that it is seen to be separate from
that which is provided to the administration
side of this Assembly—provided that that is
allowed within the wording of the
Government of Wales Act—I am quite happy
to consider doing so.
The
help that will be given to the areas of southeast Powys to which you refer will come
from Objective 2 transitional and Objective 3
programmes. Those programmes will apply
particularly to areas such as south-east
Powys. Across Wales, there are more general
social exclusion programmes that are funded
from the Assembly’s budget, from which
£42.7 million has been allocated over two
years from April 2000. That will cover areas
of rural and urban deprivation, and south-east
Powys will be able to bid.
You raise an
interesting point as to how they will choose
their priorities between areas that will have
Objective 1 status, areas that will continue to
have Objective 2 status and areas that are
outside those boundaries but which will have
transitional funding or Objective 3. Objective
3 is frequently forgotten but is intended to
cover social exclusion and to enable groups
that do not participate fully in the labour
market to access jobs. Objective 3 is equal to
Objective 1 as an extremely important fund.
We should never think that parts of Wales
will not get any European funding. Southeast Powys and similar areas naturally feel
aggrieved when they are left out, but they
will not be forgotten by any of the agencies
responsible to the Assembly
Regarding bungling
incompetence, when Nick Bourne said there
was Objective 2 funding previously in southeast Powys, I think he meant Objective 5b
funding.
I do not think that is
what he said but we shall look at the record
tomorrow. If he is going to play games and
use terms like ‘bungling incompetence,’ he
must be sure of his facts. Not every part of
Wales will get every single European
programme and we accept that those areas
feel disappointed. We must ensure that there
is transitional funding if they had Objective 2
or Objective 5b or whatever as their previous
designation. Nick Bourne referred to areas of
south-east Powys, which were in Kirsty’s
original question, Barry and the rest of the
Vale of Glamorgan. Those areas will have
transitional funding. To pretend that that is
nothing underplays the availability of those
funds. I do not think that he should do that; it
does not benefit anybody in those
communities to pretend that a substantial sum
of money is nothing, that it is not worth
having or that it is not worth bidding for that
money. It is important that people get on with
that process.
On the wider issue of Objective 1 funding,
reasonable progress is being made in
agreeing with the European Commission the
content of the single programming document.
We are ready and we will be up and running
as soon as the new financial year starts or as
soon as possible thereafter. On Treasury
funding, I had a good meeting with the Chief
Secretary to the Treasury, Andrew Smith, last
week. I continue to be confident that there
will be no problems when we reach the
appropriate dates for getting the Objective 1
funding up and running. That applies to the
first year and subsequent years. Although the
Treasury and the European Commission have
different demands as regards timing, I am
sure that the sensible advice of the Assembly
to both the Treasury and the European
Commission will bridge that gap.
He has not, but
Christine Gwyther has achieved this feat
herself. She wrote to Nick Brown asking him
and the Treasury to support the bid for the
additional agri-monetary money so that it can
be paid in full to farmers in Wales.
The Government’s
policy does not directly create the strong
pound. The problem relates to the
establishment of the interest rate that has
been devolved to the monetary policy
committee of the Bank of England.
Therefore, it is part of the devolution process.
As far as the Government and its agencies are
concerned, the level of the pound is set by
that committee. However, the market plays a
much greater part than the Bank of England
in setting the level of the pound against the
euro or the Deutschmark. Therefore,
governments do not control global financial
markets.
This money does not only come from Europe.
Eighty five per cent of it comes from this
country because of the Fontainebleau
Abatement, as Rhodri Glyn is aware.
Although it seems that half the money comes
from Europe and the other half from the
Government, in fact, the money comes from
this country because of the Fontainebleau
Abatement. Therefore, we must be aware of
what we can do to help the agricultural industry without using this money as agrimonetary compensation.
My allegiance lies with
the line taken by Christine Gwyther in her
letter to Nick Brown on 24 January. That
letter supported the case for agri-monetary
compensation. If we can persuade Nick
Brown, with the support of our Scottish and
Northern Irish colleagues, to successfully
fight the case for agri-monetary
compensation with the Treasury and to
compensate for the cost of the high pound,
then that must be good news for the farmers.
Discussions between Nick Brown and the
Treasury are ongoing. I am not certain what
our Scottish colleagues’ views are on this. As
far as I know, the three Celtic countries
support it. Nick Brown must make his own
determinations because he will have to have
agreement from the Treasury on this.
I will have to write to
you about that. I am not aware that such a
calculation has been made.
It would be damaging to join the euro at its
present level. If we had joined at its initial
level, we would have avoided the recent rise
in the pound relative to the euro. However, it
would have been difficult to get the
legislation through to abolish the Bank of
England in the first year of the Labour
Government. If we had devoted a large
amount of our legislative time in 1997-98 to
abolishing the Bank of England and joining
the euro, I fear that we would never have got
the legislation through to set up this august
body, the Assembly, so none of us would be
here to enjoy what Mick Bates has just
suggested. I do not know which way he
wants it, but he cannot have it both ways.
: Members of the Wales
European taskforce have visited other areas
that formerly had Objective 1, including
Ireland. I have visited Ireland and have talked
with Republic of Ireland Treasury Officials
about how to develop policies in order to
benefit as much as we can from Objective 1
funding and take the utmost advantage of this
one opportunity over the next seven years to
receive Objective 1 in the Valleys and west
Wales.
Yes, I am still
confident. There will be an opportunity early
in the new financial year to submit bids in the
appropriate manner. Public, private and
voluntary bodies can submit their bids. Ieuan
seems to accept, for some reason, that we are
not as successful and that we are weaker than
the other areas in England in preparing our
schemes. As far as I know, one of his
colleagues, Jill Evans MEP, went to see the
relevant officials this morning at the
Commission. She was assured by the officials
that there is no difference, that we are not
lagging behind and that we are not weaker,
worse or later than the other areas in England—Merseyside, south Yorkshire and
Cornwall—in preparing for the beginning of
Objective 1 in April or as soon as possible
after that.
 I do not think that you
need to have Liberal control in a democratic
body to get Objective 1 funding, although it
makes an interesting point about Cornwall
and, at least, parts of south Yorkshire and
Merseyside. A minority Labour
administration with the united support of the
three other parties can be just as successful.
The big difference has been in the choice of
the match funding percentages. The three
English areas that will receive Objective 1
have opted for full public sector pound for
pound match funding. Any private sector
contributions will be additional to that. They
were entitled to do that. There is no guarantee
of Treasury funding to cover it. We have
opted for a percentage of private sector match
funding, which we were entitled to do. That
is what devolution means. A uniform
approach is not necessary. I always thought it
was a Liberal Democrat Party policy to allow
a certain amount of creative anarchy to apply
between the different parts of the United
Kingdom according to the different
circumstances of the different parts. The west
Wales and the Valleys area is less
homogeneous than any of the three English
regions. We have to cover an extensive rural
area and the special circumstances of the
Valleys and the greater Swansea area.
If ever there was a
definition of the self-fulfilling prophecy, that
is it. Apart from the efforts of certain
politicians in this Chamber, there is no doubt
about the willingness of the private sector to
participate fully in getting the match funding
or in preparing projects which involve private
sector-based schemes for stimulating small
business development. It is a difficult issue
because the opposition parties have the right
to oppose. In a democratic government, they
have the right to do their nit-picking and their
hair-splitting. I accept that. I would probably
do the same if I was in their position and the
Conservatives were still in power, but thank
God they are not. That is the role of
opposition parties in a democratic
government.
However, there comes a point when even
oppositions need to think about whether their
efforts in stirring up issues impact on the
confidence of people, and particularly those
in the voluntary sector rather than the private
sector, who invest unpaid time in preparing
projects that could regenerate their own
communities. This is not an instruction. It is
just a plea for people to think about the issue.
 I have. Although there
have been a number of questions about social
inclusion today, questions of this kind should
probably more appropriately be tabled to the
Finance Secretary the next time around, because I have transferred the First
Secretary’s responsibilities for social
inclusion to the Finance Secretary. She did
not know about it at the time because of her
American holiday habits. The Cabinet, you
might say, had left its heart in San Francisco
last week.
There will be consequential changes to the
size of the block grant, according to any
increases in public expenditure that will be
announced in the comprehensive spending
review. We have made it clear to the
Treasury that Objective 1 funding cannot be
accommodated within the Barnett formula
after 1 April 2001. It will have to be outside
the Barnett formula. Otherwise, there will be
too much stress and strain on the budget and
there will be the danger of having to take
money from other front-line services like
health, education and housing. We would
never think of doing that.
I admit that I
misunderstood your question. The size of the
block grant increases if there is an increase in
comparable expenditure in the mainstream
English Government departments that cover
health, education and so on. The block will
increase if public expenditure increases in
England, as I am sure it will at the end of the
comprehensive spending review. Therefore,
if social inclusion expenditure increases in
England, then 6 per cent of that comparable
change will come to Wales. We do not want
to contemplate at this stage scrapping the
entire system or reviewing the Barnett
formula, although I am fairly confident that
Wales would not come out any worse from a
needs based formula compared to the present
Barnett formula. The issue of letting sleeping
dogs lie, and the need to get the Scottish
Parliament and the UK Government on
board, which is not very likely, means that it is not a high priority as far as I am concerned.
The fundamental
question is would we do better or worse
under a system different to the Barnett
system that we have used for over 20 years.
Do we want to fight on two fronts at the same
time, by fighting for Objective 1 and match
funding and also asking for a fundamental
change in the Barnett system and the system
of allocating funding to Scotland and Wales?
Although there is an element of rough justice
in the Barnett system, it has served Great
Britain quite well over the last 20 years.
On whether poverty and social exclusion has
increased during the last 20 years—of course
they have, and not just in the Valleys and
west Wales, but also in Cardiff, Newport and
areas such as Deeside. Even so, we are trying
to use and develop completely new indicators
in order to better target the public money that
we spend at the poorest areas, wards and
communities. Oxford University is
undertaking work on indicators, for example,
which comes under the control of Jane Hutt,
as the Secretary for Health and Social Services. Therefore, we are doing a great deal
of work to develop better indicators than we
have had in the past.
Action on youth crime
and disorder is identified as a key priority in
all the local crime reduction strategies now
being evolved in Wales. The planned
designation of the Assembly as a body with
which local crime and disorder partnerships
must co-operate will allow us to encourage
further attention to youth crime and disorder.
I commend strongly
the re-establishment of a strong network of
youth clubs in Wales. Youth clubs, in terms
of coverage, have deteriorated. I went to
youth club for many years; Jane ran a youth
club, and I discussed this topic only an hour
ago with Iris Williams—‘the heart and soul
of Wales’, as she is known worldwide. She
mentioned that she did not think that she
would be where she is today had a youth club
not existed for her to learn singing and to
take the first steps onto the stage in eisteddfoddau and so on. This is a terribly
important issue in terms of diverting young
people away from mindless crime and,
therefore, brushes with the law. They do not
really want to engage in mindless crime, but
because of boredom, because they are not
being diverted into more constructive
pursuits, they inevitably find themselves
doing so.
That is a wide-ranging
question. Young people are frequently the
victims of crime, although they can also be
the perpetrators of the mindless crime to
which Jane referred in her supplementary
question. The issue here is the underlying
causes of crimes such as truancy, school
exclusion and the lack of training and
employment opportunities, which can give
people the motivation to keep studying and to
see that there is a future for them in society.
The Assembly has in place a wide range of
measures to try to provide support and
encouragement to tackle these problems.
Those measures include education, training
and support for children and families.
Some excellent work
has been carried out by the former Cardiff Royal Infirmary, now the accident and
emergency department at the University
Hospital of Wales, and by the University of
Wales College of Medicine, on reducing the
number of so-called ‘glassing’ crimes and the
serious injuries that can result from them.
Accidental injuries can also occur in the use
of glass. It is important that we encourage
practical, lateral thinking on solutions to
crimes and injuries; solutions that could have
a beneficial effect on the national health
service’s expenditure on stitches, and on
work performance—with people who might
have needed six weeks off work, but could
have escaped with a bruise. If it costs less to
persuade pubs to use toughened glass, instead
of the kind of glass that can break and be
jammed in somebody’s face, then that should
be encouraged. That is the kind of lateral
thinking we must encourage as an Assembly,
in conjunction with the Home Office and
other players such as the national health
service, the medical schools, the licensed
victuallers association and the brewers.
 I could not agree more
with Peter’s points. Unfortunately, because
the provision of youth services was never
considered to be mainstream, during periods
of intense pressure on public expenditure in
the mid 1990s many local authorities pared
their non-statutory services, such as youth
provision, to the bone and left the work
largely to the churches and other voluntary
providers of youth services. Although they
have managed to fill the gap remarkably well, the provision is not what it was and that has
serious consequences, as I know from my
own constituency. I commend Peter’s views
to all local authorities, voluntary groups and
funding agencies.
I met the Chief
Secretary to the Treasury last week and
discussed a range of issues concerning public
expenditure problems in Wales and the
squeeze on the Welsh spending block. I took
the opportunity to emphasise the importance
of improving our performance in spending
public money in Wales in such a way as to
reduce social exclusion. At the end of the
day, that would also benefit the Treasury as a
tax collecting agency as well as a public
expenditure agency.
 I do not disagree with
what Phil has said, because it is a fairly wellknown and easily measured fact that, in terms
of defence procurement and even defence
base expenditure—although it is not as clear
in that area—there is far less expenditure in
Wales than our 5 per cent population share.
However, that makes up for the additional
expenditure in Wales on social security,
health, education and social services. The two
matters tend to go together and they just
about outweigh each other. It is roughly 5 per
cent of the UK population and 5 per cent of
UK public expenditure but made up in a
different way than public expenditure in
England or Scotland. What do we do about
that? We would not envisage during the
peace dividend after the fall of the Berlin
Wall that expenditure on tanks and
aeroplanes and battle ships from Welsh
shipyards or aircraft factories would suddenly
vastly increase. That is not practical. We
want additional public expenditure outside
the Barnett block on Objective 1. Then
everybody would be happy Provided that that generates additional tax
receipts, the Treasury would be happy
because it would find that, instead of 5 per
cent of the UK population producing 4 per
cent of the tax receipts as happens now in
Wales, we would have 5 per cent of the UK
population and 5 per cent of the tax receipts.
Therefore, we are happy because we are
generating the income that can afford to pay
taxes, and the Treasury is happy because
there is no longer that 20 per cent deficit
coming from Wales caused by the poverty
and the other indices of deprivation about
which we all know.
I appreciate David
Melding’s point. From my constituency
experience, there is a superb National Schizophrenia Fellowship project in St
Fagans, which is maybe one of the ones that
he visited.
 I am sure that there are
many others like that throughout Wales. This
is one of those partially devolved social
security benefit issues as regards the rules on
housing benefits, therapeutic earnings and so
on. If there are particular points that David
Melding would like me to take up following
his visits, I am certain I would have the
Assembly’s support in taking them up with
the appropriate non-devolved authorities in
the Department of Social Security in central
Government.
 I heard Gordon Brown
being asked this question on the television
this morning. In the light of Rod Richards’s
question, perhaps that was fortunate. I heard
him say that he did not agree with Norman
Tebbitt’s advice in 1980 or 1981, whenever it
was in the early Thatcher years—how long
ago they now seem—that people should get
on their bikes and find jobs, much as his old
dad had done in the 1930s. When Norman
Tebbitt said ‘get on your bike’,
unemployment was rocketing by about a
quarter a million a year, as it shot up from the
1.15 million when Labour lost office in 1979
to 3.5 million by the time it peaked in 1986.
When unemployment is rocketing it is
disheartening to be advised that there is a job
within a bike ride of every Sunderland or
Swansea street corner. The issue that Gordon
Brown is now raising—with unemployment
falling, as David Melding mentioned the last
time I answered these questions—is whether
we could be more persuasive with better
mentoring and better assistance with training,
to persuade more unemployed people to look
at the jobs that are there on every Swansea
street corner, or maybe on some Swansea
street corners, if only they had the
qualifications and could persuade themselves
to get out of the slough of despondency that
many of the long-term unemployed get into
after many years on the dole.
I can try to give Phil
Williams the timings on this revised
document. It is not a new document, as I
think he was claiming, neither is it the old
document as I misunderstood last Friday. We
were both half right and half wrong. Every
civil servant has a personal computer, so
documents get revised almost every day
because it is technically so simple to do so.
The draft SPD was originally submitted on 3
November; supplementary information was
provided on 15 November; the Commission
approved the document as being okay in
technical terms on 17 November and it sent
its preliminary comments on 20 December.
Since then, there have been discussions
between the European Commission and the
partnership at regular intervals. The most
recent was last Friday, 25 February when
three officials from the European Affairs
Division plus three representatives from the
voluntary, public and private sectors of the
partnership were in Brussels having the kinds
of meetings that I am sure Phil Williams
would commend. The previous week, a group
of three from the European Commission were
over here meeting 20 to 25 representatives of
the taskforce. Therefore, it is not a fresh
submission. However, I accept that it is not
the old submission either, but something inbetween.
The Commission stated clearly in the
document that it sent us 10 days ago that it
wants reassurance that the programme will be
fully committed. It has been advised that in
addition to obligations arising from existing
European programmes, the Assembly will be
asked in early April to endorse an agreed
draft SPD including four financial tables. The
Commission will rest on the Assembly’s own
consideration of the document. The
Commission has confirmed that it does not
intend to block the SPD until the spending
review is completed later in the summer. The
Commission is aware that if the £25 million
set aside for the next financial year proves
inadequate, further funding could be sought
from the contingency reserve, if there are not
underspends that we can collect from other
departments within the Assembly’s
expenditure programme
 I am sorry that Phil
Williams feels like that. I will do everything
that I can between now and the end of April
to involve the representatives of the other
political parties on the Economic
Development Committee. Phil needs to be
aware that, in general, the Commission is
interested, not so much in whether the
minority Labour administration in the
Assembly is carrying the other political
parties with it—important though that is to
unity within Wales on this issue—but
whether we are consulting the partners, the
people in the partnership. I have mentioned this peculiarity time and time again in the
Assembly. In a way, devolution has been a
nuisance to this process in the minds of
people in the European Commission. They
prefer the English situation where you just
have the local partnership. We must deal with
the member state and the partnership.
Objective 1 involves two thirds of Wales and
there was no way, as we came into power in
May last year, that we were going to step
back from this process. Therefore, we took
over from the taskforce and we are now
carrying the partnership with us. The
Commission regards the consultation with the
partnership as more important than
consultation with other political parties.
However, if we can add the other political
parties to create a greater sense of unified
national purpose, then I am willing to do
more than has been done in the past on that
front. I say that in anticipation that if this was
not a leap year it would be St David’s Day
today, not tomorrow
I am sure that if there
were a vacancy for a Labour administration
cheerleader, Alun Cairns would not apply.
On the Economic Development Committee’s
participation—and I will write to you if I am
wrong, Alun—I believe that the latest version
of the document from the European
Commission came in after the Committee’s
last meeting. It is on the agenda of the
Economic Development Committee’s first
meeting since the arrival of the document. If I
am wrong about this, it is by about a day or
two. As far as I remember, the latest version
of the document arrived about 10 days ago,
during the maelstrom of dramatic events in
Plenary, which was after the Economic
Development Committee’s last meeting. If, in
the course of time, we come to a collective
judgement that, at the height of those
dramatic events I should have given more
thought to automatically issuing the
document to the Economic Development
Committee at that time, I apologise. To be
honest, I cannot remember whether Alun
Michael was still First Secretary, whether I
had taken over or whether we were on the
cusp of the changeover. I apologise,
therefore, if Alun Cairns thinks that he could
have received the document earlier. It would
then not appear to have been leaked in what
is an unseemly manner for an administration
committed to open government. I apologise
and believe that it was related to the timing of
the document’s arrival.
As regards what we do now, I asked my
officials this morning whether this is an old
or new version of the document. They
answered that it is a revised version. The first
five chapters have been substantially revised.
I do not think that chapters 7 and 8 caused the
problems to which Alun, Phil and Mike
referred. It is a halfway house between an old and a new document. People may think that I
should have known that it was a revised
document, not an old one, but I did not find
that out until this morning when I was able to
get hold of the civil servants concerned. On
Thursday night, when the story broke, they
were on a plane on their way to Brussels. We
could not therefore ask them about this,
though we managed some snatched
conversations on Friday. It was Monday by
the time that we were fully briefed by the
people who had been doing good work in
Brussels, along with representatives of the
stakeholders from the voluntary, public and
private sectors. They made good progress
with the European negotiating team on behalf
of the Commission and on behalf of Wales.
That should not be under-rated.
I repeat my answer to
Phil’s earlier question on the same issue. We have the Commission’s authority to say that
it will rest on the Assembly’s consideration
of the single programming document. The
Commission has confirmed that it does not
intend to block the single programming
document until the spending review has been
completed. I am confident that the
Commission is right to agree with us as
regards its level of funding for the first 15
months. The Commission and the Treasury
have their own opinions on when the
Treasury should make the commitment.
However, this is a three party negotiation
between the Assembly, the Treasury and the
Commission. We must bring all three
parties—which are not political parties—
together as, in the end, they have a common
aim of ensuring that those parts of the Welsh
economy that are lagging behind have the
opportunity to catch up during the six or
seven years of the Objective 1 programme. I
will not stand here and be an apologist for the
Treasury, and neither will I set out to declare
war on it. On behalf of the Assembly and
with the support, I trust, of all Members, I
must persuade the Treasury to find additional
resources over and above the Barnett block
so that we have the public expenditure cover
and the match funding to enable Objective 1
to go forward to the fore.
I never rule anything
out. If I lost the confidence or certainty that
we had enough civil servants or that they
were sufficiently attuned to the task, and that
the work could only be done by
supplementing their efforts with those of
external consultants, I would not hesitate in authorising the hiring of consultants. I would
do it like a shot. At the moment, I am not
convinced that they could add anything to the
expertise that we have built up and the good
contacts that we have established between the
civil servants and the administration in our
European Affairs Division and our partners in
the voluntary, private and public sectors.
Consultants could add to that and not subtract
from it, but they would possibly be a danger
and this could cause problems. If I do not
think that we will be able to complete the
work in time, I will not hesitate in asking
Edwina for authority to hire consultants. I am
not convinced that that is necessary at the
moment, but I do not rule it out.
 I will add a certain
amount of detail to what is, I believe, already
on the intranet as a guidance for Members on
asking questions. Following further
discussions with Christine Gwyther and Sue
Essex about the marginal areas between their
portfolios, Christine Gwyther will continue to
have a cross-cutting responsibility for
sustainable development. Sue Essex will have
Christine’s former responsibility for looking
after the affairs of the Countryside Council
for Wales and the national parks. Likewise,
Christine will continue to have responsibility
for the sustainable parks side of the national
parks’ development programmes.
Yes, and I agree on the
appointment of the chief executive. I expect
to make a further statement on that matter in
the Economic Development Committee
tomorrow. I will consider the offer of all four
party leaders coming with me to Westminster
to try to strike fear into the powers that be. I
will come back to you and the other party
leaders on that matter once I have considered
it further.
Childcare is the key issue. Members of the
European Affairs Committee, during their
visit to Brussels last Thursday and Friday,
heard an explanation of the European
Commission’s employment strategy. The
Commission placed great emphasis on the
fact that a childcare network is needed. That
is the way to help women to take an equal,
deserved role in the workforce.
Of course. Setting a
statutory minimum wage in Great Britain
would have a greater effect in Wales than in
any other part of the United Kingdom. I
would expect to see a growth in the economy
and in spending ability because so many
women in Wales would take advantage of the
minimum wage and the fact that the base had been set by that new Act.
Is there inequality in public bodies like the
Assembly itself or in any quango sponsored
by the Assembly? If anybody knows of lack
of equity in the way pay is set for women and
men in Assembly sponsored public bodies, I
would be pleased to hear the evidence.
It is almost as if Alun
is trying to produce a self-fulfilling definition
of positive discrimination; that is, if you use
the word ‘discrimination’, it is automatically
bad. People are in favour of positive action.
If, in an industry, in the service industries or
in the public sector, the present status of the
workforce points to evidence of past bad
practice—for example, if 90 per cent of
employees are men and 10 per cent are
women, or if 90 per cent are women but all
the top jobs are taken by men—there is
something wrong and action is needed to
move in the direction of more equal
opportunities. I hope that Alun does not
dissent from the general proposition that the
more successful economies in the world are
those where women and men, regardless of
the necessary break for childbirth and so
forth, are able to participate fully throughout
their working lives. Therefore, the
expenditure that society and they themselves
have invested in their education and
qualifications is not wasted. They are able to
play their full part in careers rather than deadend jobs and in making sure that the full
range of career opportunities is as open to
men as it is to women.
I strongly support those
recommendations. Not only must there be
provision of childcare, that childcare must be
of good quality and affordable.
Unfortunately, affordability is frequently a
major issue, particularly in the case of
younger children, because of the obligatory
staff-children ratios when children are under
one year old. In the Scandinavian countries
the range, affordability and high minimum
standards of childcare are essential to ensure
that women and men—because this can affect
a minority of men as well—are able to
participate in the workforce. They do not lose
those key years when they could be bounding
up the earnings ladder through having to stay
at home due to the absence of good quality,
affordable childcare. Childcare is also
essential in rural areas, where it is much more
difficult to provide.
The People in
Communities programme, which is the
Assembly’s innovative response to tackling
social exclusion in deprived communities, is
operating on the Peulwys Estate in Old
Colwyn.
That is an interesting
attempt to give publicity to a no-doubt
beleaguered Conservative candidate in that
constituency
We tend to be torn both ways on this issue.
We have recently announced four call centre
developments in Swansea, Pembroke Dock,
Cwmbran and Merthyr Tydfil. Therefore,
when there is a desperate desire for call
centre developments in north Wales, people
ask why call centres are not also being
developed there. When a site is identified by
the Welsh Development Agency and the local
council as suitable for a call centre that would
be centrally located on the north Wales coast,
people say that they play football on that
patch of ground or that they pick blackberries
there, or whatever. That always happens. You
must then ask people whether or not they
want a call centre. Finding a balance between
an adequate range of industrial sites of this
kind to ensure that every part of Wales has an
equal chance of attracting a call centre and
wishing to preserve every patch of ground
that is or was a playing field, is not easy. I am
not sure whether David is showing the right
degree of balance between the need to create
employment and the need to conserve a
playing field in this area.
Many people intend to
get a job in Colwyn Bay but not everyone has
been as lucky as Alun Pugh in finding one.
Whatever may be happening as regards
Conservative Party representation in that
area, I would urge the Conservative Party to
consider the job chances of 100 people who
might get a job in a call centre as well as their
own desire to look for a headline in the
weekly newspaper.
Alun Michael was
parachuted out of Colwyn Bay when he went
to university many years ago, so I am not
sure whether that is relevant. Rod is an excommando and may have done a lot more
parachute jumping than I ever envisage
doing
Colwyn Bay is sometimes considered a
retirement community. It may have many
elderly people and great attractions for the
retired, but there are also many young and
middle-aged people of working age there
who want jobs.
I cannot comment on the individual issue of
the land adjoining Eirias Park. I will not get
involved in that. It is a matter for the WDA
and the local council. If the transaction is
lawful, I shall not interfere. The area’s
population cannot be regarded as being
entirely made up of pensioners who are not
interested in work. People are, of course,
interested in work and we must ensure that
there is a range of sites available that will
attract either call centres or some other form
of employment.
 I partially repeat my
answer to question 1 in relation to the People
in Communities programme, which I
mentioned in the context of Colwyn Bay.
There are, however, three communities in
south-east Wales that are listed among the
eight communities in the People in
Communities programme. Rhymney in
Caerphilly County Borough Council—not
Rumney in Cardiff—the Duffryn estate in
Newport County Borough Council and the
Gurnos and Galon Uchaf estates in the County Borough Council of Merthyr Tydfil,
have all been included in the People in
Communities programme. That will enable
residents to identify changes to improve the
quality of life in their communities.
The M4 relief road is a
matter that is being dealt with by Sue Essex
as the Secretary for Transport, Planning and
the Environment. It was previously dealt with
by the Environment and Local Government
Committee, which she previously chaired
with distinction. That is still pending the
outcome of further studies. It is a matter that
goes back some years. We all know about the
problems of the Brynglas tunnels, which go
back to the 1960s. It is not for me to address
in detail the issue of whether there are
alternatives involving greater use of traffic
management and of public transport to cover
the east-west corridor where it hits the
pinchpoint of Newport and the Brynglas
tunnels. Studies have been undertaken of
what is the right solution to a long-standing
problem. It not only affects Newport, but the
whole of the south Wales economy, because
Newport is to some extent the gateway to the
rest of south Wales. I will not comment or
take sides on an issue which is still a long
way from a decision.
I briefly saw a press report about the airport.
This has also gone on for a long time.
Whether we should eventually close down
Bristol International Airport at Lulsgate and
Cardiff International Airport at Rhoose and
concentrate on having one airport on the
banks of the Severn estuary on the Welsh
side, has been a long running saga. It has
never got anywhere nearer than lines on maps
and occasional articles in The South Wales
Argus and The Western Mail. Beyond that, I
do not know if the project has any real life in
it. However, it becomes a runner if someone
has a few billion pounds and wants to build a
new airport: they can buy Cardiff
International Airport and Bristol International
Airport and close both of those down.
However, William and I will be retired from
politics a long time before that happens.
You would not expect
me to dissent from that proposition,
particularly now that Eddie George,
Governor of the Bank of England, has
admitted that the pound is too high. There is
no question that it is damaging to
manufacturing industries. Wales tends to
have a higher proportion of manufacturing
industries and less of a proportion in the
service industries than other parts of the
United Kingdom. The specific impact on the
steel industry is even worse because of the
recent merger between Koninklijke
Hoogovens and British Steel to form a new
company, Corus, which has similar facilities
to Llanwern and Port Talbot on its site in
Ijmuiden just outside Rotterdam. I hope to
meet the chief executive of British Steel
before the end of this month and no doubt the
future of Llanwern will be discussed. The
only solution is probably a closer alignment
between the pound and the euro somewhere
back to where it was in 1997 or thereabouts.
The issue of whether we should go into the
euro will then be debated. However, more
important is at what rate would we go into
the euro. If we went into the euro at the
present rate it would be an absolute killer.
However, if we went in at the 1993 rate, after
we fell out of the exchange rate mechanism,
it would probably be wonderful for
manufacturing industries but something inbetween might even satisfy Alun Cairns.
This is one of those
difficult areas which is not devolved. The
provision of post offices is a matter—if it is a
matter for Government at all—for the
Department of Trade and Industry, which
oversees the Post Office. The Assembly
made its feelings known during the debate on
1 March. Other debates of that kind are
communicated automatically through to the
Government. When I talk to Stephen Byers,
the Secretary of State for Trade and Industry,
I will make him aware—if he is not already
aware—of the strength of feeling on the
closure of rural post offices, which may be
our marginal businesses, and urban ones,
such as the one in Penygarn near Pontypool,
even though it is a non-devolved issue. If
something can be done that does not
undermine the viability of marginal post
offices in rural and urban areas, while gaining
the advantages of automatic credit transfer in
terms of social security payments, it will be
considered.
That was a good
preamble and a good question. The issue of
the dependence of the community,
particularly Newport East and the area further
along towards the Severn bridge, on
Llanwern steelworks is huge. It used to
employ 8,000 or 9,000 people, I think it now
employs about 3,000 people. It is an efficient
works. It does not have its own deep water
harbour, but it shares the costs of the deep
water harbour at Port Talbot, which helps to
make Port Talbot more viable. However,
there is currently no doubt, from the noises
emerging from Corus—the new company
formed by merging Koninklijke Hoogovens
with British Steel—that it is not looking with
a positive eye on its British operations,
because of the amount of red ink and the
amount of black ink involved in its Dutch
operations. It is not known how long it will
be willing to do that if the currency fails to
come back to what everybody, including
Eddie George, would regard as a more
sustainable, normal rate.
This is an important
issue. We help young people as they emerge
from the education system in Wales to
consider business as a career, with parity of
esteem towards business careers and the older
professions and the academic world.
Traditionally, Wales has been a long way
behind in this respect. As a new body, the
Assembly can try to establish a new way of
looking at education and the business world
to provide that parity of esteem. I would
think that the new Council for Education and
Training in Wales would help to produce
parity of esteem in education and training. It
will be looking at sixth forms, further
education colleges and workplace training for
young people on the same basis, rather than
on the basis of failing at academic level
meaning that students can go on to further
education and failing that, workplace training
can be arranged for them. It will not be like
that under CETW. There will be complete
parity of esteem between the three—currently
separate—streams. I hope that there will then
be parity of esteem in society.
I do not often commend The Western Mail.
Usually, when you see photographs of 16 and
17-year-olds, or a bit older, in school, it is
because they have obtained passes to Oxford
and Cambridge Universities from the local
comprehensive. However, The Western Mail
has recently started a feature called ‘Skills
Watch’, which gives equal attention to people
who have obtained apprenticeships in a local
firm. I want to see more of that—parity of
esteem in society as well as in the world of
education, training and the workplace
 I agree with Janet. Not
all experiences of the business world are
wonderful or enriching for pupils in their
final years of school who go on work
experience. This is true whether they are
bright, of average ability or below average
ability. Some firms do not know how to
handle work experience, so we must help
them.
The Engineering in Schools exhibition
demonstrated the quality of project work. I
saw the prize-winners in the Cardiff
International Arena recently and the quality
of the project work that had been done by
schools and further education colleges in
conjunction with local firms was out of this
world. It made one hope that many of them
would still be doing engineering and creative
project and team work in five years’ time. If
we can ensure that young people who enter
the world of work on a placement or after
leaving school have positive experiences in
the early years, they will have more
satisfying careers in industry or business.
Education business
partnerships are part of the range of
opportunities that will be available. Christine
Chapman worked in this area before entering
the Assembly, so she can explain this to me
in more detail later today. The matter of
ensuring that there are strong partnerships to
bridge what is traditionally regarded as the
isolated world of academic education and
what happens to you afterwards—how you
get slotted into the world of work—is not
always done with a view to your individual
potential. All sorts of areas are having a
better link-up. The abolition of the TECs will
not lead to the education business partnership
being attenuated.
 The important thing is
to target subsidy grants towards the poorest
areas in our villages and rural areas. Richard
Edwards asked the same question of Alun
Michael on 8 February. The answer is the
same: you must target. We know that there
are particular aspects in rural areas, namely
the fact that you are on your own and out in
the country. People do not always realise the
poverty and deprivation that has occurred in
their area. I hope that the grants announced
by Sue Essex last week of £5 million to bus
companies will succeed in improving
services throughout Wales. There is much
emphasis placed on addressing the problem
that people in sparsely populated rural areas
cannot access places where work is available.
Therefore, they cannot raise their standard of
living through earning better wages or any
wages at all.
We have all noticed
that the sum that farmers receive for a gallon
of milk has decreased greatly. It has fallen to
almost a quarter of its value seven or eight
years ago. That is bound to affect the
standard of living of people in rural areas. If
you do not live on a farm, you may work on a
farm or sell tractors or repair farm machinery.
If farmers do not have money, they do not
buy as much in local shops or in places that
serve the agricultural community. Everyone
accepts that rural Wales is in some kind of a
crisis, depending on whether you are in the
dairy or livestock sector. How can you target
the help that you want to give? Earlier, the
People in Communities programme was
mentioned. Three of the eight targeted areas
under that new and creative programme are
rural. Therefore, we are not ignoring the
problems in the agricultural sector and the
fact that the income has reduced drastically in
those areas. This, as Rhodri said, creates
poverty in areas that we did not consider to
be problem areas.
I am sure that the
Assembly agrees that there is a massive
market failure in the entire agricultural
sector. There are minor exceptions, and one
occasionally hears good news, but there is a
massive market failure exacerbated by
surplus production, the level of the pound and
the absence of agri-monetary compensation
to cope with the fact that people cannot
export their produce. These problems are
related to the knock-on effect of BSE even 10
years later. It still has a knock-on effect on
exports and, in an export-dependent industry,
like the Welsh livestock industry, it is bound
to have repercussions. Higher levels of
regulation and charges have had to be
introduced to cope with the loss of consumer
confidence, especially abroad. Although beef
sales are normal again in this country, they
are not at their previous level in the export
sector, which comprised 30 per cent of our
lamb and beef production. Short-term
solutions, such as agri-monetary
compensation could be used to cope with this
market failure today. However, we must
consider ways of reforming the agricultural
sector by using modulation as well as other
methods to try to see how diversification
could assist the farming industry to fare
better in the next 10 years than it has in the
past 10 years.
I was recently in
Montgomeryshire at Mick’s kind invitation
and I visited the WDA’s mid-Wales office.
The dedication of its staff to the cause of
creating jobs was evident and was no less
than that of its predecessor body—the
Development Board for Rural Wales. I will
have to list in writing the positive examples
for which Mick asks, but the staff of the midWales area are determined to ensure that they
will continue to build on the DBRW’s good
work, which was outstanding on two counts:
its social and economic remits, which were
unique to it. The social remit has now been
terminated; the economic remit is being
spread throughout Wales. On the economic
remit, because the DBRW did not deal with
inward investment from abroad, it was good
at creating businesses locally. From being
pushed hard exclusively in mid-Wales, that
idea is now being pushed throughout Wales.
The DBRW did not have an inward
investment function and, because of that, we
would all share its mission. How do you
create more businesses from within Wales
and get them thoroughly grounded in the
community in the same way as Control
Techniques plc, to take an obvious example
from Mick’s area.
I have discussions at
least once a week with the Secretary of State
for Wales on any issues affecting Wales. This
is one of the prime issues and it arises
regularly in our meetings. Paul Murphy is
fully aware of my views on the contents of
the Select Committee’s report on European
structural funds. I do not dissent from the
views expressed in the structural funds body.
The only difference between the Secretary of
State and myself is that he is bound by
Cabinet collective responsibility. There are
various things that he cannot say. The good
side of that is that he is an excellent lobbyist
on the inside of the UK Government in a way
that I cannot be. I do not think that he would
find much difference between the views
expressed by the Welsh Affairs Select
Committee and my views. Therefore, we are
continuing to push, via Paul Murphy and
independently of him, for the Treasury to
agree with our case that we cannot manage
the match funding and public expenditure
cover issue within the traditional calculation
of the Barnett formula.
The end of July is the
timing as far as the Treasury is concerned. I
have invited Andrew Smith to visit the
Assembly.
I do not remember
which point in the Welsh Affairs Select
Committee’s report Paul said was incorrect.
That does not affect the general principle that
Paul is an excellent lobbyist for Wales inside
the UK Government. The price of that is that
he is bound by Cabinet collective
responsibility in what he says outside.
I wish that I could give
that guarantee but I do not think that I can. I
cannot exclude the possibility that there is a
firm in Powys that would like to proceed but,
because its application was submitted after
the 31 December deadline, does not have an
interim offer that can be turned into a final
offer. Due to the superb efforts of Assembly
officials who deal with regional selective
assistance having kept the books open longer
than in Scotland and England, we are still
working through cases that received interim
offers before 31 December and are, therefore,
not affected by the cut-off date pending the
agreement on the new RSA map. I cannot
exclude the possibility that, either now or
over the next couple of months until that map
has been agreed, there will be firms in Powys
that will have their projects sterilised or held
back by the absence of a map. It is an
extremely difficult situation. We are still just about holding the line but the pipeline will
eventually run out of projects. If we have not
managed to get the regional aid map sorted
out by then, we could be in difficulties not
only in Powys but in all assisted areas in
Wales.
No.
There would be no point in doing so, because
this matter has been devolved to the
Assembly.
I can only repeat what I
said earlier. There seems to be a problem in
the distinction between performance
management systems and pay threshold
systems. The remarks to which I understood
Cynog Dafis was referring last week, when I
sought to intervene, were about pay threshold
systems and not performance management. It
is true that I discussed with the Secretary of
State for Wales and the Secretary of State for
Education and Employment in the presence
of Rosemary Butler, as the Secretary for
Education and Children, whether the
Department of Education and Employment
was interested in finding a method of
voluntarily transferring the pay threshold
systems to the Assembly by some delegated
instrument. However, there was no interest
and that closed the matter since it is not a
devolved issue, unlike performance
management.
That depends on the
meaning of ‘external’. We have discussed
what happens when members of a Subject
Committee have different ideas about the
legal and constitutional advice that has been
given to the relevant Secretary, such as
Rosemary Butler in relation to pre-16
education. Every time a Cabinet Secretary
says that she or he has received advice and
the matter is not one that has been devolved
to the Assembly, we do not want the
Committee saying, ‘Well, if we ask half a
dozen other solicitors, perhaps one of them
might say that they can interpret the
Government of Wales Act 1998 differently
and say that it has been devolved’. The best
way would be to have a system whereby a
member of the Office of the Counsel General
is present in every Subject Committee
meeting. Members of that Committee could
then ask the solicitor from the Office of the
Counsel General face to face whether there
were any doubts about the advice that the
solicitor had given to the relevant Secretary. I
would be happy to arrange that kind of
system.
We have performance management based on a Welsh system. Pay
thresholds are not devolved to the Assembly.
If we chose to make a formal request for pay
thresholds to be transferred to the Assembly,
how would we do that without transferring
the whole issue of teachers’ pay and
conditions to the Assembly?
Cynog Dafis said last week that he did not
take the view—and as far as I know Plaid
Cymru does not take the view; I do not know
about the Liberal group—that it would be
wise for teachers’ pay and conditions to be
transferred to the Assembly. In general, there
is a strong feeling that pay negotiations are
better dealt with at least on an all England
and Wales level, if not an all Great Britain or
all UK level. There are 150 civil servants
employed in the Northern Ireland Office to
deal with teachers’ pay and conditions in
Northern Ireland. On a population basis, that
would mean some 250 civil servants
employed in Wales doing the same thing. I
have no interest in spending that amount of
Assembly money on additional salaries to
deal with separate teachers’ pay and
conditions negotiations in Wales.
I am grateful for that
question because both my predecessor and I
have made clear the importance we attach to
the European dimension of the Assembly’s
work. The Committee on European Affairs
received a helpful briefing on current policy
issues, both from Commission staff with a
special interest in the big issues for Wales
and from members of staff at the UK
Permanent Representation in Brussels on 2
and 3 March. There were 11 members of the
Committee on European Affairs present,
representing all four political parties.
Assembly Secretaries are undertaking
reviews of the policy areas for which they
have responsibility to assess how European
Community developments and legislation
impact on them. Each has been asked to
submit a report to me, and those reports will
be an important step in identifying what
contribution the Assembly can make to the
European debate. As Pauline is aware, the
Committee on European Affairs does not
scrutinise European directives and
regulations. Some people say that the
Assembly should scrutinise more directly the
European legislation that affects us, but there
is so much of it that we would require 660
Assembly Members, not 60.
Yes, I can speak for
Wales and I can possibly give some update
on the wider UK situation. The Countryside
Council for Wales has received a £1.8 million
budget increase so that it can carry out the
full study and notification procedure of all
the sites worthy of inclusion in the Natura
2000 Habitats and Birds Directives. That £1.8
million is spread over two years. Detailed
negotiations are still underway with the
Countryside Council for Wales on how much
it will need in the first year and in the second
year.
We have taken urgent action and have
provided the resources to back-up that urgent
action to ensure that Wales’s access to
Objective 1 funding will in no way be
prejudiced by the strong words that have
been used in the European Parliament, today and yesterday, in relation to certain Member
States, including the UK, having been very
flat in getting the procedure ready for
completion of the Natura 2000 directive by
the end of 2000. On the UK side this goes
back—as we often hear in this Chamber—to
a certain John Redwood. There were such
savage cuts in the budget of the Countryside
Council for Wales that they were unable to
carry out the notification work. We have had
to put that right in the past few weeks, and
negotiations with the CCW have been
successful. On the UK side, we were given
assurances in Brussels last week that they
were not going to penalise us in Wales, if the
rest of the UK did not pass muster in the way
that I am now confident that we will pass
muster. The situation is not likely to cause us
any problems. I understand that the UK
Government and the European Commission
will shortly be able to announce reasonable
agreement on this issue of notification of
sites for the Natura 2000 directive and,
therefore, the absence of any threat to
Objective 1
I cannot give a date,
but if I remember it was about a month ago.
However, if I am incorrect, I will write to
Dafydd to correct myself. We responded
quickly to the situation as it developed.
Dafydd makes an interesting point regarding
the presence of Des Clifford and others in
Brussels, in early May. That will give better
advance warning and a system of hearing on
the grapevine where problems are starting so
that we know in more time. Therefore, there
will be less of a threat. However, I believe
that we have avoided seeing the threat turning into reality.
I will deal with the
second aspect first, regarding Broughton.
That is a pre 1 January application which was
first looked at, as I recall, by the Industrial
Development Advisory Board at its early
November meeting. Therefore, there is not a
problem over the map in the case of
Broughton. You will have to direct me
specifically to any statement made by Hillary
Armstrong. My expectation is that the
European Commission and the UK
Government—he is right that it is Ministers
at the Department of the Environment,
Transport and Regions who take the lead on
this—do not expect this to be a significant
problem. His memory may be different from
mine, but I thought that there was some
context or point during the meetings that we
had on 2 and 3 March, at which this matter
was raised between us and the officials. I will
write to him when I have a better recall of the
precise occasion. I will apologise to him and
put the matter straight if I am wrong in
remembering that it did arise at some point
during the two-day visit to Brussels.
Our regional links in
the education field are not withering on the
vine at all. I cannot comment on individual
programmes, but the European regions
exchange programmes for young people,
university students and the non-university
stream of people of the same age group are
stronger than ever. Those different European
programmes ensure cross-fertilisation
between different parts of Europe. If you
write to me and give a specific example of
withering on a grapevine, I hope that I will be
able to reassure you that the vineyard is
healthy even if the odd branch has fallen
from the odd vine.
We already do that.
The specific needs of rural Wales and its
communities are taken into account in
developing a whole range of domestic and
European policies and programmes. These
include the People in Communities
programme to which I referred on several
occasions when I last answered First
Secretary’s questions. Other programmes
include the Objective 1 single programming
document for west Wales and the Valleys, the
Objective 2 funding document for many parts
of the rural east of Wales along the English
border and the rural development plan for
Wales which builds on the work of the rural
partnership to provide a comprehensive,
integrated and strategic approach for the
development of rural communities
throughout Wales. I accept that the sectoral basis of much of the rural economy—
agriculture and forestry—is suffering from a
combination of the effects of the high pound
and market failure across many of the
specialist commodities that we produce
strongly in Wales. Most of that market failure
goes back to the BSE problem of 10 or 12
years ago.
I am not aware of the
meeting in Builth Wells to which you refer,
but this is a matter that gives rise to all kinds
of problems in England and Wales.
Whenever there is a resource allocation
working group and a working plan to allocate
per capita expenditure by health authority, it
is difficult to decide how much extra to put in
for sparsity of population, social deprivation
and for above average mortality and
morbidity rates. Rural Wales comes out quite
well on mortality and morbidity rates, but
fares badly because of the cost of serving an
area with a high sparsity of population.
Powys, for example, does not have a district
general hospital of its own. Balancing all
these factors is extremely difficult. Each time
it is done, some of the results are almost
similar to local authorities’ damping formula
problem. Working out how much allowance
should be made for rurality, sparsity,
mortality, morbidity and general levels of
social deprivation is a difficult task.
However, one must make tough choices
when running an administration
I see that Elin is
moving swiftly as a member of the
Agriculture and Rural Development
Committee. During the next two weeks, I will
meet prominent national committee members
and officials of both farming unions. I hope
that I will be able to meet them face to face
and hear from them how serious the
agriculture crisis is in Wales, especially in the
dairy sector. Despite that, I have also heard
from leaders of the farming unions that they
were not in favour of some of the
demonstrations that took place. I believe that
the dairy sector is split on the value of those
demonstrations.
I agree that patients
should not suffer because of mismanagement
by Dyfed Powys Health Authority. I do not
want to commit an allocation of money on
behalf of the administration, or a refusal to
accept certain cutbacks being negotiated
between a health authority and health trust. If
I did so, I would pre-empt resources that may
be needed as much, if not more, by another
health authority or a trust in the Dyfed Powys
Health Authority area. That cannot be done
standing at this lectern. In my response to
Nick Bourne’s question I highlighted the
issue, which is how you allow for weighting
the resource allocation formula to take
account of sparsity, morbidity, mortality and
social deprivation. I would not count
Ystradgynlais as part of rural Wales,
although it is in Powys.
 You have just clarified
the point that I was trying to make to Kirsty.
We could all stand up and make a plea on
behalf of individual communities, or the
whole of the areas that we represent, as being
disadvantaged by the present formula.
Somehow or other, Jane Hutt and her
officials have to decide what is a fair formula
and identify the differences in allocations
received by individual health authorities,
compared to what they would have received
if we had continued with the present formula.
Anyone who loses out in the new formula
will come to the Assembly to riot. Anyone
who gains will remain quiet and will
probably not applaud our work. However,
that is the nature of government. It involves
tough choices.
My predecessor and I
have received several representations since 1
January 2000 about the Assembly’s European
policy. I am happy to write to the Member
with details of these if he will indicate in
which European policy area he is interested.
We must be aware of
what has been devolved to the Assembly and
what has not. If we decide to run a parallel
government in exile, as it were, on all the
issues that have not been devolved to the
Assembly, we could spend a vast sum of
money on consultants to look into this, that
and the other. For example, how big an army
we should have, whether the Child Support
Agency should be abolished, what should be
done about social security, as well as the
issues to which the honourable Member
refers. I am not sure that that would be a wise
use of Assembly resources. We should stop
trying to mark out the pitch and get on with
the game.
As far as I understand
the guidelines of the Subject Committees, it
is the Committee’s duty to decide whether
any new European regulation is relevant,
timely and important. The Subject Committee
should then ask for advice and consider the
new subject or law.
That is not the Committee on European
Affairs’ duty. We discussed at the
Committee’s last meeting—following a
request from Phil Williams—whether the
duty should be transferred from the Subject
Committees to the Committee on European
Affairs. We decided that that would not be
wise. However, if need be, I am open to
reviewing this.
No. I have not
considered changing the format, but I am
happy to answer questions on any relevant
issues where I have an element of
responsibility during questions to the First
Secretary. If Dafydd or the Assembly wish
to change the present pattern that we
inherited from the National Assembly
Advisory Group before we came into
existence, I am happy to accept any
recommendation.
 I have no objection to
that principle. However, when considering
whether we should substantially change the
pattern of questions to the First Secretary, we
should not think that everything is fine in
Scotland just because we do not operate in
the same way—the grass is always greener
on the other side. As far as I hear, Scotland is
not happy with its pattern either. However, I
am open to ideas from the majority of the
Assembly on reviewing questions to the First
Secretary because I accept that we inherited a
pattern from NAAG. The group, possibly,
was prone to believe that the Assembly
should act contrary to Westminster, although
we should, perhaps, sometimes act as
Westminster does. If a majority wants open
questions I have no objection.
 I sympathise with the
National Assembly Advisory Group’s view
that there is an element of farce about the
procedure of Prime Minister’s question time
at Westminster. In order to ask an open
question you must go through the rigmarole
of asking what the Prime Minister’s
engagements are. When you have heard ‘I
refer the Honourable Member to the answer
that I gave a few moment ago’ 15 times
during Prime Minister’s question time
between 3.00 p.m. and 3.30 p.m., it makes you think that there must be a better way. If
there is a way of achieving the openness of
Westminster without the element of farce and
the rigmarole of having to ask what the Prime
Minister’s engagements are for the day, I
would be fairly willing to consider that
sympathetically.
I am not sure whether I
regret that, since I was not responsible for the
matter at the time. I am not sure what this
question means. It was the partnership’s and
the taskforce officials’ idea to weave rural
issues through the whole document rather
than set them apart in a separate ghetto. The
debate about questions such as how much
priority should be given to rural issues is a
continuing one. Should these matters run
through all the measures or should they be
considered separately? The partnership made
its decision. However, we would not object if
a decision were made with the European
Commission to give a specific priority to
rural matters. Perhaps that is what will
happen. The Assembly will have another
opportunity to consider the final version of
the single programming document, which
will be the basis of our expenditure from
Europe over the next seven years.
 I accept that there is a
difference of opinion between the European
Commission and ourselves about how to
interpret and prioritise the rural question
within the Objective 1 area. Should we take it
as a separate issue or as a theme that weaves
through the whole document? I am not sure
that even the relevant officials in the
European Commission are of the same
opinion. I believe that Members from each of
the Assembly’s four parties, who were at the
meeting with those officials, saw the
difference of opinion among European
officials on how to deal with the issue. We
will have the right to consider the final
version and decide whether rural issues
should be given separate priority rather than
be woven through the document, as Rhodri
suggested.
 I can only repeat what
we were told in Brussels. Phil Williams, Val,
Nick Bourne and myself attended meetings
on 2 and 3 March, at which we were assured
that, in all likelihood—you can never give an
absolute guarantee—it would be signed off
by the end of this month. In terms of the
Assembly’s consideration of it, there will be
one further debate in the Economic
Development Committee at the end of the
month and one further debate in Plenary in
early April. As
well as our weekly meetings, the Secretary of
State and myself, as well as Edwina Hart, are
members of a Joint Ministerial Committee on
Poverty. It has been established to consider
joint or co-ordinated action by the UK
Government and the devolved
administrations to tackle social exclusion and
to facilitate exchange of information and
sharing of best practice. The next meeting of
that committee will be next month and will
concentrate on the elderly and pensioner
poverty. Three broad categories are identified
in the Department of Social Security’s social
exclusion annual report ‘Opportunity for
All’: the young, working age people and the
elderly.
That is an interesting
way of hooking social exclusion up with
events in another legislative chamber, 150
miles east of here, later this afternoon. The 1p
cut in income tax was announced in lasyear’s budget but will take effect from 1
April this year. I have no idea whether there
will be any changes to the plans announced in
last year’s budget over that 1p cut in income
tax as I am not privy to budget secrets. What
could be done with that money instead is a
matter for speculation. We all know what you
could buy with 1p income tax if it were not
cut or if it were increased by 1p, as I believe
the Liberal Democrats wanted to do.
However, it is difficult for the Assembly to
discuss matters relating to the budget when it
is being dealt with in Westminster later this
afternoon
Dafydd’s geography is
rather weak. I do not accept this and I do not
believe that Pauline Jarman would accept that
either. She was present at the opening
ceremony of the most recent call centre in
Nantgarw, which was announced this
morning by British Telecom. She was there
as the leader of Rhondda Cynon Taff County
Borough Council and I was there as First
Secretary. The centre expects to serve the
Valleys and attract workers from that area.
Although public money will not go into
them, in the last six months there have been
announcements that call centres will be
established throughout Wales. I accept that
there is not one in the North. Most of the jobs
will be located in Swansea, as ntl announced
last week that it will create 500 jobs; it was
announced today that 500 additional jobs will
be created there, although public money will
not go into the centre; Cable & Wireless
announced a year ago that it will create 1,200
jobs in Swansea; it was announced after
Christmas that 600 to 700 jobs will be created
in Pembroke Dock and it was announced a
month ago that 1,000 jobs will be created in
Merthyr Tydfil. The situation would have
been different two years ago with an overemphasis on job creation in Cardiff and
Newport. That is the pattern of new job
announcements with which I have been
involved during the last six months.
I am not sure if I am
permitted to answer that question, which, as I
think Nick would agree, is stretching the
point of social exclusion to the ultimate. I
was not aware of the Sinn Fein visit until I
saw the press release that he put before me
seconds before I got up to speak. I have not
read it. I know nothing about the visit and I
do not feel qualified to comment on whether
it would contribute to, or has anything to do with, social exclusion.
The issue of the
changing nature of jobs on offer and what
kind of training is needed to participate in the
future economy is critical. It is about job
matching and people matching. If what BT
told me this morning is accurate, it will offer
considerable training for a relatively
upmarket call centre in Nantgarw. It will
place an emphasis on women returning to
work and others who may start off without
much technical knowledge, but have skill and
adaptability. The likelihood that, having been
trained, those people will stay with BT and
not hop over a boundary wall into a call
centre next door is one of the Valleys’ major
attractions for BT. Ensuring that people do
not get left out of the call centre boom
because of their unfamiliarity with IT,
computer technology and the use of voice
and data transmission systems is critical.
These systems allow people to take telephone
queries and call up data on a computer screen
at the same time and thus answer the query
immediately. It is critical that this system
ensures that these are not bottom knocker
jobs that require a simple telephone
answering technique. We do not want to have
a category of people who cannot access jobs
because of the absence of training.
This morning’s announcement was made in
the training annexe of Pontypridd Technical
College. In discussions with BT we sought to
ensure that the college would be fully
involved in ensuring an adequate supply of
fully-trained people for the project. That
means reducing the number of people who
might be socially excluded because of their lack of previous experience.
I refer you to the
answer that I gave to Cynog Dafis on 7
March on the same issue. I have not received
a response to the draft plan from the
Secretary of State. I did not expect one.
I am not clear whether
you quoted the figures for implementing the
mental health strategies from ‘A Better
Wales’ or from another source document. We
are committed to enabling the Better Wales
strategy to proceed on course, subject to the
consultation. The willingness of
organisations and individuals throughout
Wales to use the Assembly’s website, where
‘A Better Wales’ is prominently featured, and
comment on it has been astonishing in that
consultation, in terms of citizen participation
in the better government agenda and in
producing the kind of corporate plan to which
everybody can sign up. There have been over
16,000 hits on the Assembly’s website,
betterwales.com. Those who designed it did
not expect anything like that level of
response. It shows that the use of the latest
technology enables an active citizenry to
emerge in the new Welsh democracy that
began last May.
The consultation ended
on 3 March. The responses, including those
from the Welsh Local Government
Association and the voluntary sector, were
overwhelmingly positive. There were also
over 100 written responses. We accept that
the final version must be clearly stamped
‘made in Wales’ and include as many madein-Wales policies as possible. We are
working on that. The Assembly will have the
opportunity to debate the plan in detail on 28
March.
We never seem to
catch up with the need for cardiac surgery.
The number of operations or treatments
required seems to overtake estimates of need.
Anybody who has had heart disease in the
family will be conscious of that. I only have
to look at Ieuan’s party leader, although I was
thinking of my father rather than of Dafydd
Wigley. The original estimates for the
number of operations required in south and
mid Wales increased from 800 to 1,200 and
then suddenly shot up to 2,000. Cases in
north Wales are normally dealt with in specialist hospitals in Liverpool and
Manchester. That would probably give you
an estimate of nearly 3,000 operations a year
required in Wales. The figure seems to shoot
up all the time. Every time you make a
capital investment, such as opening the
cardiac centre at Morriston Hospital, you find
that it is inadequate. We may need to expand
the University Hospital of Wales and
Morriston Hospital and have additional
provision in north Wales. There may be
further announcements on that by the
Secretary for Health and Social Services later
this week.
Given his customary
perspicacity and incisiveness of mind, Mike
will have observed that I am not the
Chancellor of the Exchequer of the United
Kingdom, but the First Secretary of the
Assembly. Therefore, matters pertaining to
levels of income tax are not matters for me. It
stands to reason that the greater the budget
available for public expenditure by the
Assembly, the greater our ability to fund
increases in the health service. That would be
welcome. However, many other objectives
must be borne in mind, such as trying to
ensure that inflation is kept under control,
that the Bank of England does not raise
interest rates in order to stop inflation
increasing and that therefore the exchange
rate of the pound goes up. Many other factors
must be balanced when the Chancellor of the
Exchequer makes his budget announcement at 3.30 p.m.
I only saw this
document when David’s party leader showed
it to me seconds before I stood up to answer
questions. I cannot comment further as I do
not know anything about the visit.
I do not think that the
intended social exclusion was my social
exclusion from Cabinet meetings in London,
which no doubt take place at regular intervals
and at which the Chancellor of the Exchequer
may or may not reveal budget details.
Everybody should be patient and wait to find
out the budget details until they switch on
television sets at 3.30 p.m. or until they
receive the documentation, which will
hopefully be available somewhere in this
building when the Chancellor sits down at
4.30 p.m. or 5.00 p.m. If Rod could contain
his patience, he would be less worried about
whether I am attending Cabinet meetings of
the UK Government, which plainly I am not.
I am sure that the
representatives from all four parties who
were on that visit will agree that it was
successful. It provided an opportunity for
Committee members to meet and strengthen
links with members and staff of the European
Commission, the European Parliament, the
Committee of the Regions, the UK
permanent representation and the Wales
European Centre.
 The intent is clear: the
presence of a civil servant—there will be two
civil servants eventually, although only one
has been appointed so far—in the Wales
European Centre, with full access to the UK
permanent representation office, which
means that those with diplomatic cover can
go without hindrance into the UKREP office
and see the telegrams, messages, faxes and emails that travel back and forth between UK
Government departments and UKREP. We
will therefore have representation in Brussels
on the inside track of diplomatic efforts
across the board, with the different
institutions and departments of the UK
Government, as well as the Scottish
Parliament and the Northern Ireland
Assembly. Our representatives, who will
have diplomatic status, will be on the inside
track to receive information so that they are
better placed to ensure that nothing
damaging—that we can avoid—is done to
Wales and that everything possible will be
done to maximise the benefit to Wales.
There will be two
observers, not one, although the only one
appointed so far is Des Clifford, who is wellknown to all of us in this building. Another
way in which we can strengthen ties between
ourselves and Brussels is to try to maximise
attendance by Assembly Cabinet members at
Council of Ministers’ meetings to ensure that
we are in the loop. As Phil will recall from
the last European Affairs Committee
meeting, we must also make our views
known to the institutions of the British
Government and place on record the
collective views of the European Affairs
Committee so that it is not open to the
accusation of being a talking shop. We must
manifest a Welsh view of issues before they
are decided upon at an intergovernmental
conference, such as the one in Lisbon this
weekend.
Yes, I had the
opportunity to discuss the strong objections
of the Competition Directorate of the
European Commission to the UK proposals
of last summer and its great concern about
that methodology, which it saw as a way of
circumnavigating the reduction in population
coverage. The directorate took this view
because of the way that one can collect wards
together to take out population but not
industrial sites. Therefore one could still have
the same employment creation but with the
lower residential population officially
attached to it. The directorate objected
strongly to the methodology because it
thought that it frustrated the purposes of the
reduced population coverage. We are still
hopeful that, by some means or other, the UK
Government, with the Department of Trade
and Industry taking the lead on this matter,
will achieve an agreement with the European
Commission before long.
I am not keen to stray
into these sensitive matters of whether or not
people bond in Brussels. On Northern Ireland
Assembly Members, Neil Kinnock made the
point firmly that they do not talk to each
other in Northern Ireland because the
barricades go up as soon as they get off the
plane. However, I am sure that Alun Michael,
Ron Davies and others will have observed
that the Northern Ireland MPs can talk to
each other much more freely in the House of
Commons, where Dr Ian Paisley will talk
freely to Social Democratic and Labour Party
members, but cannot be seen to do so in
Northern Ireland. We do not have the same
inhibitions about talking to each other.
However, we should consider the invitation.
This matter arises
regularly in my weekly discussions with the
Secretary of State, namely, should we try to
place the European social fund under our
own control rather than that of the
Department for Education and Employment.
Everyone accepts that putting all the
European structural funds under one roof
would improve the quality of the
administration, particularly when Objective 1
comes in. To ensure that, the Department for
Education and Employment must transfer the
public expenditure survey cover to the
Assembly.
The Department for
Education and Employment is keen to
transfer the responsibility to us, but it has not
been keen, so far, to transfer the money that
we expect that we will need to sponsor the
social and training aspects of Objective 1.
That is the problem.
The department is keen to be rid of the
responsibility because, as Elin said, only one
person in its London headquarters deals with
Wales. The department does not deal with the
English regions; it only deal with Wales. It is
keen to transfer that responsibility but, so far,
we cannot agree on the figures for the
transferral of the public expenditure survey
cover.
I am not sure how
William’s question is connected with
European social funds under Objective 1 and
3 programmes in Wales. If the question
implies that match funding was linked with
the vote of no confidence, that is correct.
However, every First Secretary must pursue
matters that are delegated to them by the
Assembly in the best way that they can.
Whatever happens politically in a minority
administration is one of those things over
which you have no control and which is
written about in the history books. If there are
28 people in your group and 32 in the other
party groups combined, then, que será, será.
 I agree totally that the
evaluation of how European structural funds
contribute to job or wealth creation or the
removal of social exclusion is important.
That evaluation must be independent and
done regularly. I think that the British lead
most European member states in trying to
ensure that structural funding is evaluated to
see whether it has produced the intended
outcome. I have no actions in mind, but I
have every sympathy with the principle. If
Christine has examples of structural funding
that has not been subject to independent
evaluation, I will ensure that that gap is filled.
As I reported on 29
February, I met with the Chief Secretary to
the Treasury on 23 February and discussed
Objective 1 funding extensively. Discussions
as to the best solution to the problem are
ongoing at official and political level. I have
made it clear publicly, as did Alun Michael
before I became First Secretary, that we
would prefer that Objective 1 and other
European structural funding be taken outside
the Barnett formula. That is the proper,
transparent solution to this problem. As yet,
that has not been accepted but we live in
hope.
Audit matters are more
for you, Janet, as Chair of the Audit
Committee, than for me. If there are issues
that you think need to be examined in terms
of Wales, I am sure that you will undertake to
do that in the Committee. The question of
whether this is a good time to press the UK
Government on additionality is distinct from
the issue that I mentioned earlier, of trying to
get the new structural funds programme put
through on the basis that it is over and above
the Barnett formula. My inclination, given
my responsibilities, would be to concentrate
on that and not to open up too many fronts.
However, I understand why Janet, given her
role, would want to concentrate on any errors
identified by the European Court of Auditors
as regards past expenditure for previous
structural funds.
That was a nitpicking
question, Alun. You could nitpick for Wales,
if you did not have three New Zealander
grandmothers. I have stated publicly, and
restate this afternoon, the long-held belief of
this administration that it would be better for
the Treasury, ourselves, Europe, and potential
recipients of structural funds, that the
funds—that is, the public expenditure survey
cover—be taken outside the Barnett formula.
That is the key issue. PES cover is loosely
referred to as match funding by the public,
though match funding is a slightly different
matter. Getting the PES cover taken outside
the Barnett formula is the big battle. If we
can win that battle, we are 90 per cent of the
way there.
I have frequent
discussions with the Secretary for Health and
Social Services, as Kirsty will not be
surprised to learn. I have almost as many
discussions with Jane Hutt on this issue as
Kirsty does as Chair of the Health and Social
Services Committee. These focus on the key
issues facing NHS Wales and the
mechanisms through which the Assembly
seeks to address the issues concerning our
poor state of health in Wales.
All of us probably read
the story of how kidneys ready for transplant
had not been used because of the exhaustion
of two locum surgeons who had been
operating continuously for 15 days. The
management wisely decided that enough was
enough and that they could not carry on
because they risked making a mistake.
This situation has been building up since
Rosanna Lord and her outstanding team—the
best team in the world in terms of its
results—was persuaded to go to such
hospitals as Guys or St Thomas’s in London.
That was a tragic loss for us. Locum surgeons
were appointed. Only two out of three were
available and they became exhausted. Moves
to appoint a team of three are imminent. I
hope that such a situation as dedicated kidney
surgeons having to take a long weekend of
rest and recovery after operating as a team of
two instead of three will not recur and that a
long-term solution of having a full team of
three on a permanent basis will follow
shortly.
I cannot give details
about resources to be allocated to address
alcohol and substance abuse but I accept the
high priority that Geraint has put on the issue
I heard Alun Michael talking about it on
Radio 5 Live this morning as I was on my
way to Nantgarw for the call centre opening.
It is serious that we have the highest rates of
near alcoholism among 15 year-old boys in
Europe. The matter deserves urgent attention.
We must make young people realise how
much damage excessive drinking causes to
internal organs so that they can avoid kidney
or liver transplants when they reach 35. At
15, they may not realise how much damage
they are doing to themselves. This issue has
been hidden and needs to be brought out into
the open. Urgent action must be taken to
combat it.
 It is simple. We all
know what has happened. People are
surviving longer and so greater demands are
being made on the health service. Even
though the number of treatments has
increased, there is still an increase in waiting
lists. This increase may be in the wait for
treatment or for first diagnosis by a
consultant, which has gone up more rapidly
than the waiting list for treatment in general.
That does not mean that we have been doing
less. It is compatible with what has been
happening. We have been doing more but
demands are increasing even faster than we
can expand the capacity of the NHS to meet
them.
 I am grateful to you for
raising this issue. In the press and political
coverage of the likely closure of mass
production of Rover cars at Longbridge,
although not at Cowley, it is sometimes
forgotten how dependent on supplying the
British car industry much of the
manufacturing industry in Wales is. That
applies not only to the strip mills and the
finished products end of the steel industry,
such as Port Talbot, Llanwern, Ebbw Vale
and Shotton, but also to all manner of car
component suppliers across Wales. You
could almost say that every part of a car is
manufactured in Wales even though there is
no car assembly plant in Wales and there
never has been. The likely effect has been
broadly anticipated or calculated on a broadbrush basis by the WDA. This is not an
estimate on which you could rely. About
1,000 jobs are likely to be lost if mass
production of cars ends at Longbridge. We do
not know exactly where those jobs will be
lost. The figure is taken as a proportion of the
total automotive components industry in
Wales, plus the steel industry. It is divided by
the proportion of car production in the UK
that will be lost as a result of mass production
car assembly finishing in Longbridge under
Alchemy’s proposals to take over from
BMW. That is against a background of an
expanding automotive components industry.
This gives the industry immense diversity
and strength and the ability to attract other
customers at the same time as maybe losing a
customer at Rover in Longbridge.
Yes, I agree. Anyone
who travels regularly on the M5 and M50
between south Wales and Birmingham—I am
sure that the same would be true on the M6
from north-east Wales—sees a constant
stream of lorries travelling back and forth to
Rover and other car factories in the west
Midlands. That umbilical cord between us
producing the steel or the pressed steel panels
or whatever and then shipping them to
Longbridge has existed for the past 40 or 50
years and it would have a serious impact in Wales if it were cut. However, I would not
want to say—because there are no Rover
subsidiaries left in south Wales—that the car
components industry cannot attract customers
elsewhere in the car industry. In the west
Midlands, the Peugeot and Citroën plants
remain open as do the Jaguar plants in
Coventry and Castle Bromwich. Last year
was a record year for unit car production in
the UK, nevertheless we accept that Rover,
being the only indigenous producer, has a
better record of buying British components
than many of the other car companies.
Therefore the loss of the Rover orders could
have a bigger impact than you might expect
on a pro rata basis.
 It is not clear from the
notes that I have from the WDA as to
whether its broad-brush 1,000 job loss
estimate includes or excludes the steel
industry, therefore I cannot comment on the
first part of the question. You made an
interesting point in the second part. If it
became clear over the next week, from
information coming directly from suppliers to
Rover, that there would be knock-on effects
which were easy to calculate in Wales, we
would need to make representations for a
share of the additional urban regeneration or
job creation money. This money seems to
have been allocated exclusively to the west
Midlands where the bulk of the impact will
be. If there were big job losses in Wales, then
we would try to secure a share of that money
and we would make appropriate representations to that effect. I am sure that
that would be supported by all parties in the
Assembly
 I hope that we can keep
job losses to a minimum. However, where we
cannot reduce it any further by any other
action to help firms to get different endmarkets, if they lose their Rover orders, then
the emergency intervention procedure will be
followed. If the worst comes to the worst, the
emergency procedure for the training and
enterprise councils to get involved and to
make special assistance available to those
made redundant, will be used. I assure her
about that.
The figure of 1,000 job
losses is a composite estimate. I do not know
whether Janet Davies is right in assuming
that 800 jobs will be lost at TRW. I am not
aware of anything quite as severe as that. I
heard a radio broadcast and read an article in
The South Wales Evening Post, about a
fortnight ago, which referred to a threat to 
800 jobs at TRW. However, there is no
closure proposal for TRW. It is an issue
relating to productivity and so forth. The
1,000 job loss estimate certainly does not
include job losses at TRW. We should not
say it is all doom and gloom. Companies may
have export orders, they may supply other
UK car producers or the ‘Japanese
transplants’—as they call them in the United
States—of Honda, Toyota and Nissan. Unit
car production was at its highest ever level in
the UK last year. It is not all doom and gloom
and markets exist. However, I am not in any
way complacent about the impact of the
Longbridge closure on mass production in the
component industry in Wales.
Yes. I do not know if I
need to add anything more to that. I have said
it before and I will say it again—Eddie
George has said it before and will probably
say it again—how you impact on the
financial markets for currencies to get the
pound down to what everybody would agree
would be a more reasonable level, is a great
mystery. Normally Labour chancellors at this
stage in a Labour Government would
desperately try to prevent a run on sterling.
However, what we are trying to do is to
prevent a run on the Deutschmark. That is
unusual. In some ways it is a tribute to the
prudence and quality of Gordon Brown’s
management of the economy and the
delegation of responsibility for interest rates
to the monetary policy committee of the
Bank of England. However, it is extremely
inconvenient to three regions of the country
in particular. The west Midlands, the east
Midlands and Wales are the three regions
with the highest dependence on
manufacturing industries.
 I am pleased to hear
that, Gwenda. When you believe that it
would be in the best interest of the workforce
and the management at TRW, she and I may
want to see if we can secure an invitation to
congratulate the workforce on increasing
their productivity sufficiently to assure their
futures and the economic future of the Neath
valley.
Greater openness must
be at the heart of our business. Not only will
decisions made in the open be betterinformed decisions, they will be better
decisions, because they will be made in the
knowledge that they will be open to scrutiny
at every stage in the process. We must
remove the barriers between the governed
and the governing. Our new democracy in
Wales means that this is what people have
come to expect, and it is what I would like to
deliver. I promised that, if I became leader of
the Assembly, I would introduce the
principles of open government in Wales,
ahead of the Westminster Government’s
legislation on this. I said at that time that we
should govern in the sunshine and not behind
curtains. My aim is that, as far as the
Assembly’s papers and processes are
concerned, there should be a clear
presumption in favour of making information
available, unless there is a strong likelihood
of substantial harm being done as a result of
disclosure. There must be a culture change in
favour of making information available.
The Assembly’s present code of practice on
public access to information goes a long way
towards achieving this aim. However, the test
in the existing code is whether disclosure
would result in harm or prejudice—simple
harm or prejudice. I want us to go further and
test for substantial harm, as stated in the
Government’s White Paper of December
1997. I hope that the Assembly and the
public sector in Wales will agree with this
approach. As I have already announced, I
intend for the minutes of Cabinet meetings to
be published on the internet six weeks after
the relevant meeting. Summaries of press
briefings by the First Secretary’s official
spokesman will be published on the internet
on the same day. All Assembly business
should be presented simply, in clear language
and in line with our bilingual policy. I will
ensure that all the Assembly’s published
documents are made available on the internet,
and that there is a ready means of ensuring
that people can find out what is available,
namely a register. In future, advice from
officials to myself and Cabinet colleagues
will be presented so that the direct advice on
policy will, in principle, always remain
confidential, but the facts and analysis in
relation to that advice can be separated from
it. The factual analysis can therefore be
disclosed to those interested in the policy
decision, should they wish to see the basis on
which it was made.
There will be circumstances where
confidentiality must be observed. For
example, where commercial interests or the
privacy of individuals, including children, are
concerned. We will also need to observe the
confidentiality of material provided by
Government departments and the other
devolved administrations in Scotland and
Northern Ireland. Otherwise, we could
become a back door route for securing access
to material that is lawfully denied under other
jurisdictions. The Government has introduced
its Freedom of Information Bill, which will
give people new statutory rights to access
information held by Government departments
and public authorities. Access to such
information will be subject to the test of
whether harm is likely to be caused as a
result. I want to go further in Wales and test
for a strong likelihood of substantial, rather
than simple, harm. I have consulted the
Parliamentary Ombudsman and he is content
that we should adopt this as the test to be
applied in Wales. He will therefore use
substantial harm as the basis for a finding of
maladministration, if people are wrongly
denied access to the information that they
have requested.
As I have already mentioned, the Assembly
has its own Code of Practice on Public
Access to Information, adopted in May 1999,
shortly after the Assembly came into
existence. The code requires us to be
proactive in making information available.
We have made enormous progress and more
information is available to the public on the
workings of the Assembly than there was
ever available about the Welsh Office. More
importantly, that that information is easily
obtainable, thanks to new technology. The
code requires prompt responses to requests
for information, and it provides that
information should normally be released,
unless doing so would cause harm. Even if
harm is likely, the code allows disclosure
where the public interest outweighs that
harm. There is also a right of appeal against
non-disclosure of information.
We will need to create a register of
documents, in electronic and hard copy form,
so that the public knows what information is
available. We have already broken the mould
of secrecy and the closed world of the few
taking decisions on behalf of the many, but
we can do more. First, we can see whether
the code fully meets the needs of the new,
open style of government that we are
developing. I therefore propose that we
consult on whether, in the light of new
experience, we need to revise that code to
give greater emphasis to the presumption that
information will be made available.
Secondly, we must see that Assembly
sponsored public bodies adopt the same
principles. Where we lead, we need to ensure
that the bodies for which we are responsible
will follow. We cannot always insist on this,
but our job, through persuasion and example,
will be to create a climate where fully open
administration becomes the norm in Wales.
The people of Wales want that. They want
and expect the barriers to be broken down
and that is what we should deliver.
Open government is about being honest and
developing a relationship of trust between the
governing and the governed. Certain matters
will always have to be treated in confidence
and the public and businesses must be able to
trust us to respect confidences. The more
open we can be where there is no overriding
need for confidentiality, the more people will
accept that when a matter is treated as
confidential, there is a sound reason for doing
so. A relationship of trust is the mark of a
sound and mature democracy and we must
achieve that in Wales.
I might have forgotten
a couple of Dafydd’s questions because I did
not start to take notes until the end of the
speech, as I was under the impression that I
did not have a pen with me at the lectern. On the Cabinet, we are following the example of
the monetary policy committee of the Bank
of England. Usually, when six weeks have
elapsed, much of the heat has gone out of the
debate. Therefore we expect to be able to be
quite open, although perhaps the media
would expect a story of some scandal or
disagreement during a Cabinet meeting.
However, after six weeks, much of the
interest has fallen away from an issue that
was previously controversial. We are
proceeding on the basis that there is no
obstacle to giving a full account of what
occurred within Cabinet when we publish the
Cabinet minutes six weeks after the relevant
meeting.
Dafydd said that this would be done on a
voluntary basis. You would not describe the
existing code as a voluntary one because the
Ombudsman could make an interpretation of
maladministration. If we as a Government
say that we intend to administrate in a way
that will give the Ombudsman the right to
bring a ruling of maladministration when
somebody has prevented a member of the
public, a Member of the opposition parties, a
backbencher or a media representative from
having information to which they think they
have a right, and the Ombudsman finds for
them rather than for us, that is not a voluntary
aspect. It is not statutory but neither is it
voluntary.
Only in the context of local government
could it be described as voluntary. We cannot
command local government, unlike quangos,
to follow our example. We would expect and
hope that it would do so but all we can do is
lead by example.
 I am grateful for that
comment. I agree about the need for a wellinformed democracy, and I cannot see how
you can have that except by greater freedom
of information. I accept that it is easier for the
Assembly than for the UK Government to
have a strong, substantial, harm-based
freedom of information policy because we do
not deal with matters of diplomacy or
security. We do not have the responsibilities
of the Home Office, the Ministry of Defence,
the Foreign and Commonwealth Office and
certain matters with which the Department of
Trade and Industry deals. We do not license
arms exports to Iraq or conduct cold war
related negotiations and so forth. Therefore it
is much easier for us and we can feel more
able and less inhibited about creating the
well-informed democracy that William
Graham and his noble predecessor, Winston
Churchill, were talking about.
I am grateful to Mike
for that warm commendation. I cannot ask for
better than that. Mike mentioned an
important point about the media: I think that
was one of Dafydd Wigley’s questions that I
forgot to answer, and I have thought of
another two that I will try addressing one way
or another. I think that Dafydd thought I said
the information would be available on the
intranet, but I said the internet. Papers such as
Cabinet minutes would be available to the
media. We are talking about publishing on
the internet not intranet, and the media would
therefore have access to documents.
However, the creation of the register is the
critical issue. You cannot exercise a right to
freedom of information unless you know
what information you have the freedom to
access. There therefore has to be a published
register. It will need to be created, and it is
far more complicated now that there are
electronic as well as hard copy data. Longestablished freedom of information regimes
such as the one in Sweden have faced similar
issues. Sweden has had freedom of
information since 1753, when quill pens were
used. Then came typewriters and computers.
However, electronic information must now
be registered and the documents created must
be held in a central register. As a result,
journalists, special interest groups,
individuals concerned about information held
on them, the media, researchers for
opposition parties or backbenchers, will be able to consult the register to see what
documents exist. It is only then that you will
know what information you can access. It is
important to ensure that there are registers for
the quangos and us. This will be subject to
consultation because people must have time
to adapt to this system and must have a right
to comment on it. However, the creation of
the register and the right to access the
documents listed in it is critical to an
effective freedom of information
dispensation.
I am glad that the
opposition parties do not consider the
suggestion to be below the belt. Freedom of
information normally applies to Government
institutions because they hold information.
However, if the other parties are already
doing that, I welcome it as being in the spirit
of a mature democracy.
The
UK Government represents UK interests at
intergovernmental conferences. However,
under the terms of the memorandum of
understanding and the concordat on coordination of European Union policy issues,
the Assembly can have an input into the UK
Government line on European issues.
Following the last meeting of the European
Affairs Committee, I wrote to Keith Vaz, the
Minister for Europe at the Foreign and
Commonwealth Office, setting out the
Committee’s views in relation to Wales’s
representation in Europe, the European Court
of Justice and the extension of qualified
majority voting in the field of culture. All
these matters are likely to arise in the course
of the intergovernmental conference that
started under the Portuguese Presidency. If
other issues of importance to Wales arise in
the course of the conference we will express
our views on those as well.
We did not have
representation or direct input into the Prime
Minister’s line or the UK line, when he and
other Secretaries of State attended the summit
meeting. The summit is a different one-off
process. The intergovernmental conference
process can continue for eight or nine
months, possibly 10 months. Indeed, the
intergovernmental conference process began
in February and will continue until
Christmas, whereas the summit meeting is a
one-off meeting to solve individual problems
that have not been solved at a lower level
during the course of a presidency. We did not
have direct input into the employment line
taken or the direction for Europe and its
economic future. If there are particular points
you want me to raise in relation to matters
raised at the Cardiff presidency, having been
lost in the intervening period since June
1998, perhaps you could write to me and I
will ensure that those points are taken into
account.
Most independent
observers would agree with what Jonathan
has said about the poor likelihood of Wales
still being able to compete in being low down
the league table of prosperity from 1 January
2007 onwards. The countries from eastern
Europe that will have become new members
by then will have much lower rates of GDP
per capita. We hope that the programme that
will run from about now until the end of 2006
will have been reasonably successful and
that, therefore, we will be out of the league
for Objective 1 funding. However, if we are
still in the league for Objective 1 funding we
will campaign for it. To do that we will have
to compete at the cut-off point of 75 per cent
or whatever it is by then. At the moment the
GDP figures for the applicant countries,
which will probably be members by 2007, are
not much more than 50 per cent and some are
lower than 50 per cent of the average
European GDP per capita. Therefore, they are
in a different league to those parts of the UK, that now qualify at 74 per cent of the average
GDP per capita.
I would welcome such
debates. It is not for me to decide which
debates form our business. However, it would
be useful if the debates gave the right to
whoever writes the letter on behalf of the
Assembly to say that Wales’s opinion across
the four parties is represented and that there
is a united view on the importance of some
matters.
Those are an
interesting set of questions to which there is,
as yet, no fixed answer. Devolution is
relatively new: we have only been in
existence for 10 months. We do not yet have
the full menu of the different ways in which
we could contribute to ensure that Wales’s
interests are not ignored or that there is a Wales line, as Ieuan mentioned, based on a
reasonably united front across a large
majority of the Assembly. Options could
include the Joint Ministerial Committee,
direct representations before a Council of
Ministers meeting is held, or attendance by a
member of the Cabinet at an European
Council of Ministers meeting. Scotland has
done that far more frequently than us because
of its special position in relation to fishing.
Over the next two years, these matters will
evolve in many ways and Wales will have an
appropriate input when there is a matter of
high priority for Wales.
 I see where Owen John
Thomas’s question is coming from. The
Assembly comprises three British parties—
one with a federal constitution and two
without—and one Wales-only party, of which
he is a member. We must all be tolerant of
each other’s parties’ different needs,
constitutions and geographical interests.
The Business Committee—as far as I know—
had a meeting to discuss this issue because of
dissatisfaction last year and the excessive
number of journeys back and forth from
Bournemouth, Brighton, Harrogate or
wherever the conferences were held. It was
not thought to be entirely in line with our
sustainable development policies to be racing
across the country two or three times a week.
It endangers the sanity, let alone vanity of the
persons concerned to travel back and forth
from Liberal, Labour or Conservative party
conferences during that period. It is a genuine
difficulty. All I can say is that we have two
party conferences. We have just had a good
one in Llandudno as I am sure Owen John
Thomas would agree. The other parties will have Welsh conferences and they will wish to
participate in British conferences and not pull
out of them because of a clash during what is
traditionally known as the British party
conference season. It is an easy problem for
Owen John Thomas’s party but not so easy  I am not sure from
where the figure 32 comes. My mathematics
is beating me for the moment. Owen John
Thomas is expressing a view that contradicts
the one that I expressed in answer to his first
question. This Assembly has to work on the
basis of mutual understanding of our different
requirements. Plaid Cymru is a Wales-only
party. Nobody denies that. It does not have
this problem. The other three parties do.
Some tolerance, trust and understanding
between the four parties is the best way
forward.
When I issued a plea
for tolerance and understanding it was with a
degree of apprehension that I saw the familiar
figure of David rise to its feet. He has a right
to his view but it is not one that I share. If we
have to extend the hours because of the
volume of work, we have a choice between a full day on Thursday or the possibility of
extending the hours. However, it would have
to be done on the basis of meeting the various
requirements of Members and their parties
and without forgetting our fundamental
underlying objectives of being family
friendly. Nothing should discourage any
Member from being able to do their work
without frustrations.
The Business
Committee considered alternative
arrangements this year. We ought to give that
a fair trial before condemning it in advance as
Owen John Thomas has done. Jenny made
other points about attempting to achieve the
volume of work that we are required to
achieve in the year that we have available to
do it. Owen John Thomas is trying to
disadvantage the three parties that have a
British presence. That is seeking individual
party advantage. He is entitled to his view but
he does not have a wide following.
What can I say but
yes? Plaid Cymru is seeking party political
advantage by making it difficult for Labour,
Liberal and Conservative Members to attend
British party conferences during the British
party conference season. I understand his
point about the continuity of work. It is a good point but it would involve us not
attending our British party conferences. We
tried it last year and it was hell for all of us,
driving back and forth. I drove back and forth
to Bournemouth several times during the
week. I do not want to go through that again.
It was insane. If we try it this way and find
that this year, or in subsequent years, the
Assembly’s work is seriously disrupted by
the discontinuity in late September, the
Business Committee will want to look at the
issue again. However, we should give it a
proper trial and not try to score party political
advantage because of the difference between
one party and the other three parties on this.
There will be other times when a party will
be on its own and will differ from the others.
None of us should seek artificial party
advantage and try to score points in that way.
The Assembly’s
Agriculture department has recently invited
tenders for a study into the feasibility and
benefits of a scheme for new entrants into
agriculture in Wales. The report is due to be
completed before the summer recess. The
Agriculture and Rural Development
Committee will consider the report’s
recommendations. If the study shows up
positive advantages, with which I am sure
Nick would agree, it can then be presented to
the Cabinet as a possible solution to some of
the age structure problems of UK agriculture.
 I will not condemn the
budget as a whole because I thought that
everybody agreed that it was a brilliant
budget for the economy. I think I am right in
saying that, although there was an increase in
fuel duty, the fuel escalator did not apply so
the over and above inflation element, which
started with Kenneth Clarke and which
continued through successive administrations
into the Labour administration, was aborted
this year. A shared objective between the
Conservatives under Kenneth Clarke as
Chancellor and Labour under Gordon Brown
to attempt to encourage fuel efficiency has
had to be stopped because the price of crude
oil has rocketed from $10 a barrel to about
$30 a barrel in the last few months. That has
taken everybody by surprise. It means that
the fuel escalator, which led to these high
prices—a policy objective shared by Nick
Bourne’s party and Labour and which has
gone on for some six years—has had to be
stopped this year because the price of crude
oil makes it impossible. He should not
indulge in point-scoring over a policy which
his party strongly activated during its final
three years in power, and which has been
continued by Labour until this year. I agree
that the price of petrol in rural areas of Wales
is high and causes real social stresses and
strains for people with long journeys to work
or who have to deliver goods from mid Wales
to East Anglia or elsewhere.
That is premature at
the moment because I do not think that any
other industry has specific age-related
schemes. Maybe it is necessary in agriculture.
Everybody recognises that the farm age
structure is high—I think the average age is
the late fifties for Welsh agriculture. We will
look at this issue again when the Agriculture
and Rural Development Committee has
considered the study for which we are now
tendering. There is sympathy towards the
need to have some form of new entrants’
scheme in Wales. If you have a new entrants’
scheme and you subsidise the new entrants,
should you also subsidise early departure?
That would mean a double subsidy for the
same end. How would you do that? I would
not want to commit myself to that at this
stage. We will look at this issue again when
the Committee has considered the report.
Without reading the
report or the consideration of the Agriculture
and Rural Development Committee of the
report, I cannot give a commitment to
allocating funding towards implementing any
recommendations that may come out of the
report and the Committee’s deliberations. It
is much too early to start talking in those terms. We will revisit the subject after
receiving the report and the Committee’s
deliberations.
Not at all. The
Assembly’s European policy cannot be
expected to impact on the European
Commission’s consideration of the assisted
areas map that was submitted to it last
summer by the Department of Trade and
Industry. The proposals are considered by the
commission on the basis of their state aids
rules by Directorate General IV as it used to
be, Directorate General Competition as it has
now been renamed. Assembly officials and
myself, previously wearing my other hat and
more recently wearing my double hat, are
being closely consulted by the UK
Government in the persona of the DTI to
ensure that Wales’s interests are properly
reflected in the process of agreeing on a new
map and that sound decisions are taken so
that the new map can be introduced as soon
as possible.
One of the problems,
on which Glyn has accidentally put his
finger, is that the commission appears not to
want travel-to-work areas as traditionally
defined in the UK because it regards them as
too big, but it did not want wards either
because they were too small, and it did not
want local authority areas because they were
not strictly related to economic activity.
Without being able to construct an ad hoc
policy using wards as building blocks, and
not wanting travel-to-work areas as
traditionally defined, and not wanting local authority areas either, it has been difficult to
find a solution that satisfies the European
Commission. We hope that after months of
disagreement over the methodology we will
be close to a new version of travel-to-work
areas which will be satisfactory to both sides.
The problem is that
any negotiations on rules of competition
within the European Union are dealt with by
the Government in London, in the
Department of Trade and Industry. It comes
under the concordat. We have every
opportunity, of course, to contribute our ideas
about Wales’s priorities. We have argued that
Wales should have the best possible bargain
given that Europe has insisted that there
should be a quarter less of the population of
the old map in the new map. This cut of
about a quarter of the population must come
from within the assisted areas. Wales,
Scotland and England are all arguing for the
best possible bargain for their own corner of
the United Kingdom.
After harsh experience
of this process over the last eight or nine
months since the start of the new
Commission in July last year—I hesitate to
give predictions. I have given predictions in
the past for which I have had to apologise to
the Assembly because they turned out to be
either too pessimistic or too optimistic. This is a difficult area—once bitten twice shy,
unfortunately. I hope that the map will be in
place in May or June but I would hate anyone
to bank on that. My officials advise me that
the effect on actual cases being dealt with is
minimal because of the extraordinary efforts
to which they went to gather all potential
applicants before 31 December. This allows
them to make interim offers before making
lawful offers of aid based on the old map.
However, we cannot continue doing that for
much longer without significant fallout from
people who cannot get assistance, who may
be in a hurry and who may go to a country
that has an approved map, when the UK has
not.
It is not a matter of
negotiations between me and the Secretary of
State for Wales—the discussions are
primarily with the Treasury and the Chief
Secretary to the Treasury, as the person in
charge of public expenditure. However, the
Secretary of State for Wales and I have
regular meetings to discuss a wide range of
issues that affect Wales. These include
European structural funds, and the Secretary
of State is helpful in assisting me in
negotiations with the Treasury
Let me clarify the
Secretary of State for Wales’s role.
Negotiations are not with the Secretary of
State, but he is being helpful in negotiations.
I hope that you understand what I said in
words of one or two syllables.
On individual figures, I would not help the
negotiating stance—and I am sure that
everybody in this Assembly would like the
issue of additional funds for Wales to be
concluded—if I set out a figure that disclosed
my bargaining hand with the Chief Secretary
to the Treasury. As to how much further
forward we are compared to when Alun left
office as First Secretary, some modest
progress has been made. I cannot put a
percentage or a pound sign on that figure.
However, I hope that now that we have
overcome certain hurdles, such as the
publication of the UK budget, and that we
have some interesting meetings coming up
that move us further forward towards the
completion of the spending review, the
Treasury comes to a greater understanding of
our viewpoint. The viewpoint is the same as
it was in Alun’s day, namely that the PES
cover cannot be accommodated within the
Barnett block limit and must be taken outside
and over and above that limit, which we get
automatically through the formula.
Match funding is far more complicated
because of the flow through of existing
baselines. I will not start to talk about a
specific figure now. This matter was raised
by Phil Williams at the Economic
Development Committee meeting yesterday,
and no doubt we will return to it.
We heard the first use
of the expression ‘a bootleg spreadsheet’—
courtesy of yourself—at the Economic
Development Committee meeting yesterday.
I am not sure that I understand a spreadsheet,
even if it has not been bootlegged. However,
how such a calculation is made is an
interesting issue, particularly because the
biggest problem is the overlap in the first two
years of the new Objective 1 programme with
the follow-on expenditure that arises from the
1994 to 1999 programme. How to handle the
acute cash flow pressure on the Assembly’s
budget during the two overlapping years of
2001 to 2002 will be a serious issue.
Calculating the necessary figure for that
period will be difficult.
I accept your restatement of the motion that
we adopted in October and have always
supported its two components about the
necessary match funding and PES cover
being over and above the normal Barnett
block expenditure. There is no disagreement
on that. My officials gave an undertaking at
the Economic Development Committee
meeting yesterday to attempt the almost
impossible mathematical task that Phil has
just set me. However, we will give it a shot at
some point during the Committee’s normal
timetable of meetings in the next week or so.
It is not lack of
commitment. It is, perhaps, the need to search
for an answer to a question in English or
Welsh that the official who is staffing the
hotline cannot answer himself or herself. A
hotline, by its nature, involves suggesting
another route, for example pursuing a matter
jointly with the Federation of Small
Businesses or another body. I do not know
what question was asked, so I cannot
comment on the answer given. However, to
obtain the information that you require,
through the post, you may be better advised
to join a local association or other body. I
cannot comment on that. If Nick Bourne
writes to me outlining the circumstances
described in the mystery caller’s trial phone
call to the hotline, I would be happy to take it
up with the staff who are responsible for that
service.
I am not aware that
there are problems of dispersal of expertise.
We have been anxious about structural fund
management on behalf of the Assembly and
to retain in post as many as possible of the
Wales European executive’s staff in
Machynlleth and Cwm Cynon. Those two
main offices will remain open and they will
be supplemented by an office in the
Assembly or in Machynlleth or Cwm Cynon.
We do not know whether new offices are
required. The new Wales European funding
office will take on and expand the Wales
European executive’s work in order to solve
the problem to which Mick refers. If there is
a particular problem regarding LEADER,
perhaps he could write to me and I will deal
with that.
That is at variance with
the conclusions of the Programme
Monitoring Committee’s first meeting, which
said that we would be fast-tracking schemes
and attempting to bring the first commitment
decisions on spending in July of this year—
this year meaning just at the end of the first
quarter, or beginning of the second quarter of
the financial year that will start on Saturday.
Any idea that schemes cannot be funded
during the 2000-01 is untrue and that should
be brought to the attention of the relevant
officials in Pembrokeshire to put them
straight on that. I am sure that it is a
misunderstanding.
I am pleased to have
the opportunity to make this statement today
about the application for regional selective
assistance grant of £25 million by BAE
Systems in connection with the A3XX
superjumbo project. My decision to uphold the recommendation of the Welsh Industrial
Development Advisory Board not to support
the application gives me the opportunity to
correct some of the misleading and
unjustified remarks that have appeared in the
media over the last week or so.
Regional selective assistance is a
discretionary grant; it is not an automatic
subsidy for capital investment projects. To
qualify for assistance, projects must
demonstrate a need for grant; to offer
assistance, we must be satisfied that the
project will not proceed in an assisted area
without that grant. Any amount offered is the
minimum necessary to secure the project. It is
not sufficient to say that we will give
somebody ‘X’ amount of jobs for ‘Y’ million
pounds worth of regional selective assistance.
Companies invest in Wales for sound
commercial reasons and many do so without
RSA. We must be satisfied that the grant
requested is needed for the project to go
ahead, if not, we cannot offer support under
the rules of the RSA scheme. Each
application for RSA is subject to a thorough
appraisal by officials including accountants.
Larger grants are also considered by the
Welsh Industrial Development Advisory
Board. It advises me and I take the final
decision under authority delegated to me by
the Assembly.
In the same way that any company is
expected to pursue its own commercial
interest and maximise returns for its
shareholders, we must ensure proper
administration of public expenditure for
which the Assembly is responsible. It is easy
to agree to applications. The difficult part of
administering the RSA scheme is rejecting
them but sometimes we have to make that
decision. Applications have been rejected on
many occasions but they are never
publicised. On payment of the first
instalment, an RSA grant of over £75,000 is
publicised with a minimal entry in Labour
Market Trends, a Government statistical
monthly. Any further publicity is at the instigation of the recipient company
My officials and I are in an awkward position
as regards BAE Systems’ RSA application.
Negotiations about RSA are treated with
commercial confidence and BAE Systems
has asked me not to reveal any details about
their application, the factors that were taken
into account in our deliberations and the
rationale behind the decision. I have had to
balance that request against my own desire
and that of my officials to explain and justify
the decision not to offer RSA support. It is
essential to maintain the trust and confidence
of companies seeking RSA. Releasing details
of the case against BAE Systems’ wishes
would send the wrong signals about how we
do business and the confidence the
companies can have in dealing with the
Assembly.
I reluctantly decided not to release details
about BAE Systems’ RSA application even
though it places officials and myself in the
invidious position of not being able to
demonstrate publicly that the application was
dealt with properly on its own merits and
consistently with the RSA scheme. The
scheme has been used to support thousands
of jobs over the years and a decision was
reached on a sound and logical basis.
I can dispel some of last week’s speculation
as to why we could not support this
application. It was not a question of it being
too expensive, or not being affordable within
our budget, or the European Union’s limits
on assistance, or of the absence of an assisted
area map since 1 January. The application
was treated on its merits and we concluded
that we could not support it within the terms
and spirit of the RSA scheme. I am not aware
of cases where the advice of the Welsh
Industrial Development Advisory Board was
not accepted although there are occasions
when a decision has been deferred and the
application revisited after the company had
supplied additional material.
I discussed the £530
million repayable launch investment with the
Secretary of State for Trade and Industry
before the loan was finalised. I cannot discuss
that in detail. As far as I am aware, the loan is
not conditional on the wings being built in
Broughton, although it is conditional on the
bulk of the wing-building research,
development and manufacture being carried
out in the UK. When the company accepted
the £530 million repayable launch investment
it mentioned up to 1,400 jobs in Broughton. I
would not describe that as a strict condition.
As for whether it should have been described
as an Assembly decision. Having corporate
body legal status means that the power of the
Assembly is delegated to me as First
Secretary with responsibility for economic
development to take decisions on regional
selective assistance cases. I have never tried
to hide that this was my decision and I must
stand by it.
I do not pretend that this is a decision taken
by you, Phil, or that it was voted on by the
Assembly. It is a delegated, executive
decision that is not shared with others and
cannot be. The problem is that when regional
selective assistance is refused to some
company it dissatisfies some Assembly
Member, some company, some MP who has
lobbied for it monthly. A month does not go
by without somebody being cheesed off
because a RSA application by a company in
Cardiff, Swansea or Pembrokeshire has been
refused. The difference is that this one was refused in the full glare of publicity. That is
what makes it unique in the experience of
most of the civil servants who have dealt with
these matters for nine or 10 years.
Alun, you have not
been listening to anything I said. I said at the time of the open government announcement
that commercial confidentiality would be
respected. In this case, BAE Systems has
asked us not to reveal the reasons behind it.
Alun’s alleged experience of the world of
private business seems to be shrinking by the
day in the 10 months since he joined the
Assembly. Does he think that I can stand here
and—regardless of the company’s wishes—
reveal the entire contents of BAE Systems’
application for regional selective assistance?
I exempted commercially confidential
material and that is commercially
confidential material. With regard to the
blame that Alun is trying to pin on me for
something that I have already accepted full
responsibility, I do not know what he is
trying to say. I sometimes believe that I am
almost in the same ballpark or town as him
and then I realise that he is on a different
planet.
All that I have said is that it is my decision. I
make these decisions every month. I uphold
Welsh Industrial Development Advisory
Board decisions to approve or refuse. It
happens all the time. The only difference
between the approvals and the refusals is that
approvals—if the grant gets paid—are
publicised. Refusals are never publicised
because the company does not usually desire
that. The BEA refusal is the first of which I
am aware that has ever been in the public
domain because the whole process was
conducted in the glare of publicity for various
reasons concerning the unique nature of the
project. I do not blame the company; it was a
unique project. When a company is refused,
there is no publicity and it happens every
month. When a company is approved, the
detail is released in a tiny two-page entry in a
statistical Government gazette six months
later or whenever the first grant is paid. Alun
should not be implying that this is a kind of
vindictive act that I made against BAE. It
happens every month.
A scheme does not qualify within the terms
and I must then uphold the Welsh Industrial
Development Advisory Board’s advice or I could legally override it. I have not done so
since becoming Secretary for Economic
Development last May. It would be a bad day
if I started to do so, despite all the reasons in
favour of the scheme and the prestigious,
high quality nature of the jobs. I am legally
entitled to do so. I would override an
approval or refusal decision by the Welsh
Industrial Development Advisory Board with
enormous reluctance.
Neither Stephen Byers
nor myself can guarantee that the A3XX
project will proceed. It is a huge decision for
the partners involved in the project, DASA
and Aerospatiale, which are about to merge
into one big company with CASA, the
Spanish aerospace national champion. BAE
Systems will not be in the main part of that
company consortium, it will be detached
from it, but it will be a big player, because it
has always provided the wing technology
from the first airbus project in the late 1960s.
It is not part of the main company and never
has been. It has always played a semidetached role and brings the vast wingbuilding expertise that it has built up at
Broughton over many decades into the
project. It is an enormous decision for BAE
and its French, German and Spanish partners.
It has not yet made that decision. It is under
huge commercial pressures from Boeing and
some of the airlines that do not agree with the
superjumbo type of plane. Other airlines are
pleased and believe that it is the right way
forward, particularly those in the Pacific
market. The decision will commit an
investment of £11 billion. It is one of the
biggest ever decisions in European business
history. I cannot give any guarantees because
the decision had not been made.
The supply chain issue that Mike raised is
important. I intend to meet the company and
unions at Broughton to see if there is another
way around this difficult problem and I will
report back to the Economic Development
Committee or to the Plenary session.
I think that you are
assuming that the £75 million RSA grant
would have been completely tapped in year
one, had I overridden the recommendation of
the WIDAB. In fact, it would have been over
an extended period so there would have been
no financial pressure on the RSA annual
budget at all. The idea that a shortage of
money led to the WIDAB’s recommendation
and my decision to uphold it is therefore
untrue. It would not have stretched the
budget. Even if it had stretched the budget,
Val will recall that I made a commitment to
the Economic Development Committee that
we would never refuse a valid RSA
application on the grounds that there was a
problem with the budget. Edwina and I have
agreed that we will always find money if a
project qualifies. I want that message to go
out loud and clear to every company from, or
outside Wales, thinking of investing in
Wales. It is Assembly policy that RSA
applications are never refused on the grounds
of money. They will only be refused on the
grounds that they do not demonstrate the
need for the grant. Money is not an issue.
The European Union rules do not apply in
this case. There has been suspicion over
World Trade Organisation rules but we do
not think that that was a problem either.
There is an agreement modulated by the
World Trade Organisation between the EU
and the USA, which concerns not subsidising
civil airliner projects, but we do not think that
that was a problem in an assisted area. The
four canards as to what the reason was for the
refusal of the grant are not true. The reason
that is true is the company’s failure to show
the need for the grant.
 I am saying that. It is a
guestimate budget and is not cash limited. If
more companies with valid cases ask for
RSA, they will not be refused on the grounds
that we put in £75 million. If we put in £75
million and find that we need a £100 million
or more, Edwina and I will have to find the
money from somewhere and we have said
that we will. It is not cash limited and I am
not sure whether it was ever cash limited.
I am not allowed to trespass on previous
administrations, but I understand that there
was an informal policy that RSA grants were
not refused because of financial
considerations when William Hague and
others were Secretary of State for Wales. We
have made it open and explicit that we will
not refuse a valid RSA claim because of a
lack of money in the allocated kitty. The kitty
allocated is a guess and not a fixed sum
against which a given number of firms
attempt to bid
 Not at all. I cannot take
responsibility for the content of Press
Association press releases. I have not read
this one but I have heard it from two different
questioners today. It is useful to be told what
the Press Association are saying about the
content of meetings with Government
Ministers which have not yet taken place. In
a post devolution short-term situation, there
is an awful attraction for journalists to say
that a big time Minister in London is going to
lay the law down to the little Welsh
Assembly or the stroppy Scottish Parliament.
It is usually a figment of a journalist’s
imagination and it certainly is in this case.
 I would like to make a
statement on the cost of the Cardiff Bay
barrage. During the debate on 7 March on the
wind-up of Cardiff Bay Development
Corporation, I indicated that the final out-turn
cost of the barrage would rise to more than
£200 million. I am now in a position to tell
the Assembly that negotiations for a final
settlement of the main Balfour Beatty Costain
contract have been concluded. I have
approved a settlement of £120.24 million,
which produces a total figure for the whole of
the barrage and allied costs of £212.755
million. This figure could rise by a further
£600,000 resulting from claims to be
concluded with the project managers and the
design consultants, but the Assembly has not
yet considered these. This would result in a
total estimated final out-turn cost o £213.4
million. How this settlement relates to
previously published estimates is
complicated. I will provide the principle figures in a moment and I am also publishing
a full breakdown of the figures in a press
notice, which is being released immediately.
On 31 March 1999, the then Secretary of
State for Wales announced to Parliament that
he was setting a cap of £197 million for the
project in total, plus setting aside a then
unspecified contingency to complete the
project. This contingency figure was not
made available so as to preserve CBDC’s
negotiating position with the contractors for
the settlement of the contract. However, an
additional sum was set aside at that time.
This provided for a total of £202.8 million.
Accordingly, the cost of the project has risen
by some £10 million during the last year. The
cap of £197 million excluded the aeration
equipment necessary to maintain water
quality standards in the bay. If this capital
cost is also added to the total estimated final
out-turn cost of £213.4 million, the total
additional cost rises by approximately £17
million, but possibly slightly less.
This settlement has been the subject of
careful scrutiny by my officials and external
independent professional advisors. I am
satisfied that accepting the settlement
represents value for money and is in the
public interest. Overall, this settlement
represents a 15 per cent increase when
comparing the original cap figure of £191
million to the current final out-turn estimate
of the project when all factors are taken into
account. While there will be some
disappointment at this £17 million cost
overrun, this containment of the rise in the
costs with a project of this complexity is a
considerable achievement. Both CBDC and
its project managers Bechtel Limited deserve
credit for achieving it. I also want to take this
opportunity to nail once and for all the
unfounded allegations that were made by
Alun Cairns about the future arrangements
for the management of the barrage and bay
during the debate on 7 March. The
agreements transferring responsibility for the
barrage and bay from CBDC to Cardiff
council have all been signed. These will be
made available publicly through the
Economic Development Committee and will
also be placed in the Assembly library along
with all the documents related to the wind-up of the corporation. These documents show
that Cardiff City and County Council has
committed itself to delivering a management
regime for the bay at £3 million less than the
alternative for letting a contract on a like-forlike basis. Accordingly, there was no
backstairs deal or political fix.
The decision was made on the basis of value
for money and affordability criteria, no more
and no less. It was based upon the proposals
put forward at the time, not any representation of those figures some three
months later. On that basis, the decision was
endorsed by the Assembly’s Accounting
Officer. Much paper has been flowing around
the Assembly in recent weeks claiming the
opposite. The documentation that will now be
circulated makes it clear that the right
decision was taken. In addition, the Audit
Committee had announced at an earlier stage
that it was to consider the costs of the barrage
project and the wind-up of CBDC separately.
I welcome these exercises as further
opportunities to verify in public the process
through which we have gone.
 I am not an expert on
aeration technology. However, if the
Environment Agency says that the proposed
method is fine, I am inclined to support its
view. I do not want to get into a competition
over who can best sing ‘I’m forever blowing
bubbles’ and what the right technology is.
These are not matters for politicians but for
engineers and regulatory agencies such as the
Environment Agency. It has said that it is
happy with the arrangements that have been
reached after much work by my officials,
CBDC and Cardiff council politicians. I do
not often find myself singing the praises of
Sir Geoffrey Inkin or councillor Russell
Goodway, but I sing the praises of both this
afternoon. I hope that they will treasure the
occasion.
The issue of not being an expert on the
technology or the engineering is important.
We have reached a deal. The final settlement
with the main contractors on the cost of the
barrage is of huge advantage to Cardiff
council as it comes to take over the barrage.
That must be of great benefit to the handover
process. Similarly, the cost of the setting up
of the harbour authority and the validation of
the costs being installed in the Section 165
agreements must be of huge advantage.
Those agreements establish the harbour
authority and mean that the original target
date set by either Ron Davies or Alun
Michael can be met. I cannot remember who
first set 31 March 2000 as the wind-up date,
giving a three-month extension to the original
date set by John Redwood. We have reached
that target date for the Section 165
agreements. That is a huge achievement and I
give credit to all the people involved.
There was another question, which I have not
answered—
Yes. The capped figure
of £197 million was announced a year ago by
Alun Michael when he was Secretary of State
for Wales. There has been an increase of £16
million. However, there was a contingency
allowance of £5 million, which was not
disclosed in order to benefit our negotiating
position with contractors. I do not remember
the date on which the £191 million was
announced. I believe that it was announced
by John Redwood, but I am not sure. I will
write to Owen and give the exact date when
that so-called original capped figure of £191
million was first announced.
Alun is a long-playing
record cloaked in human form. On this issue
of Cardiff council’s having had the Assembly
over a barrel because the memorandum of
understanding was published last year, I will
repeat what I said in my statement. The
documents show that Cardiff council has
committed itself to delivering a management
regime for the bay at £3 million less than the
alternative of letting a contract to Thames
Water, via CBDC, on a like-for-like basis. Is
he saying that if the council had not had us
over a barrel it would have saved us £6
million or £10 million? He should be happy
with the figures. They validate what we have
always said, that the reason why we did not
authorise CBDC to give Thames Water the
contract, when Alun Michael was First
Secretary and I was the Secretary for
Economic Development, was because Cardiff
council offered to do the job for £3 million
less.
I have now announced that we have achieved
the transfer at a cost of £3 million less. He
may think that when I say £3 million less I
mean £3 million more, but I do not. When I say less, I mean less. That is the saving that
we talked about. We based the decision not to
authorise CBDC to give the contract to
Thames Water on the grounds that that
Cardiff council said it would do it for £3
million less. It has been as good as its word.
He ought to accept that.
 I can confirm that. It is
in the statement and in the figures that are in
the Library and in the press release issued
simultaneously with this statement. The
statement will repay a great deal of study,
especially by those who do not listen to
words that are spoken at this lectern. I hope
that Alun Cairns paid attention to what Alun
Michael has just said and what I have again
confirmed. I do not know how often I have to
say it to get it through but this is the case.
Cardiff council has warranted to do the job
for £3 million less than what was on offer.
The expertise has always been provided by
different companies, such as Crest Nicholson
or its employees, who have direct barrage
management expertise. They have run the
sluice gates for Cardiff Bay Development
Corporation. Details of who has contracts and
employment in this handover period are matters that Cardiff council can answer more
fully than I can. The most important thing in
many ways is to nail the allegation that there
was any backstairs deal that cost more money
for the Assembly because Alun Michael
knows Russell Goodway or is the MP for
Cardiff South and Penarth. We can set that to
one side. The farrago of allegations that Alun
Cairns made from this lectern some weeks
ago can be set to one side. If Alun Cairns
wants to say more about this issue, he should
start with the words, ‘I am sorry for what I
said a few weeks ago’.
I shall deal with the
last question first because I met
representatives of Newemploy yesterday and
heard some of their concerns. I did not realise
that the job losses were as imminent as that.
You have brought some useful news. In
general, projects such as this one—not
specifically Newemploy but that kind of
training or community regeneration
scheme—were supposed to be covered by the
£150,000 out of the £6.1 million that is not
covered by the £5.95 million that is in the
sports village land transfer payback. It is
complicated, but that £150,000 was intended
to cover this type of scheme, although not
necessarily Newemploy. It is not up to us
which schemes Cardiff council supports with
that £150,000. I am not sure if we have a
mechanism to control what they spend their
money on, if there are specifics of this kind.
We can control the types of schemes they
spend their money on, but not specific
schemes. There are issues, perhaps, between
Newemploy and Cardiff council with which I
am not familiar.
The issue of the £17 million is regrettable,
but on a scale of relative cost overruns on big
civil engineering projects, it is not bad. The
first thing I did was to ensure that we were
given adequate, independent advice as to
whether we could close a deal with the
contractors before 31 March, before Cardiff
council take over. A £17 million cost
overrun, while regrettable, is a considerable
achievement and it reflects the good cost
control that Cardiff Bay Development
Corporation and Bechtel Ltd, the project
manager, have kept over the cost of the
barrage. I regret spending £17 million for
which we did not originally allow, but relative to almost any other civil engineering
project, it is not a bad performance on the
scale of normal cost overruns. Michael
German asked another question—
We still envisage that
the empty pockets clause, as he calls it, will
mostly cover matters of European legislation
or other environmental legislation that would
oblige Cardiff to adopt higher standards
involving further capital or revenue
expenditure and cannot be foreseen. As we
are asking them to undertake a central
Government project on our behalf, it would
be unfair for the ratepayers of Cardiff to pick
up the tab resulting from an unforeseen
legislative change. I cannot think of any other
circumstance where this would happen, but
there may be one. We cannot foresee the
unforeseen. In a year’s time, perhaps I will
have more to report if there are further
environmental legislation upgrades of which
we become aware in the early stages of
negotiation.
Michael German made a point on aeration.
How was it different from Owen John
Thomas’s point? Could he remind me of his
point?
 Sorry, it is my fault. I
apologise to the Assembly. The issue of
aeration and water quality standards is
primarily a matter for the Environment
Agency. The Agency has a right under the
Cardiff Bay Barrage Act 1993, if it chooses,
to lower the standards of five milligrams of
oxygen per litre or whatever it is—it is
roughly 5 per cent. Nobody else can make the
Environment Agency do that. If it insists on
five milligrams, which it is entitled to do as
that is its job, then the aeration systems must
be good enough to maintain that standard.
That is the issue for using either the mobile
bubbler vessel or these fixed landlines or a
combination of both, we do not know which.
If the Environment Agency is happy then I
am happy
This
is a constant subject of discussion between
myself, Edwina Hart and other Cabinet
colleagues who have a peripheral interest in
it. Edwina Hart takes the lead interest, as Phil
will know from the changes that I made to
portfolios on becoming First Secretary
Phil will be aware that
Sue Essex has agreed to hold an inquiry on
the Nantygwyddon site. Trecatti is also an
issue, although I am told that it is not a
particularly deprived location. Perhaps Phil
could tell me more if he believes that it is.
Pollutants such as heavy industry or poor air
quality in a neighbourhood of large industrial
plants have been part of our inheritance in
Wales for 240 years, from the first wave of
the industrial revolution which started at
Dowlais in 1760. We associate those two
things. People say that it would be terrible if
a pall of smoke from a coke oven or a sinter
plant was not there any more as all the jobs
would be lost, even though the trees would
grow better in Port Talbot or wherever. It is a
price that you will remember from the old campaigns of ‘bread not beauty’ in Blaenau
Ffestiniog 20 or 30 years ago. The Llywydd
may have led a demonstration with a sign
saying ‘bread not beauty’. You cannot eat
beauty, as they used to say in Blaenau
Ffestiniog and in Milford Haven when the
Esso refinery began operating there in 1960.
It is a constant issue. These days, the nature
of industry has changed. Therefore, the
dramatic difference between having a job in a
smokestack company and not having a job,
but possibly your children having fewer
worries about health, will no longer be with
us in the more knowledge-related economy of
the future.
I agree with David. As
someone who has suffered persistent asthma
for the past 35 years, I am conscious of air
quality and its effects on children in
particular. I am also conscious of the rising
number of children suffering from asthma.
That is not always related to air quality.
Some people say that it is related to the use of
central heating and fitted carpets. These are
two theories that have equal currency in the
medical profession. Air quality probably has
much to do with the poor health of the people
of Wales in general. However, you cannot
wish away our industrial past. No one would
want to stand up in front of this Assembly
and say that they wanted to close down every
smokestack industry in Wales. We could not
cope with that.
 I do not think that I can
commit myself to take any action on a matter
that could involve the appellate functions of
the Assembly. Whatever I may think about
the desirability of a sustainable development
orientated proposal, I cannot give my support
to an individual proposal that has been
involved in planning controversy in the past.
I do not know whether the same level of
controversy will surround the latest,
reworked proposal. If there is any chance of
controversy and objectors to the proposal, I
must step back from it due to the appellate
role of the Assembly in determining any
planning appeals.
The budget of £3.462
million that is available for the coalfields
regeneration fund for Wales over the present
three years is in proportion to Scotland and
England’s contributions and receipt of funds
and is ringfenced for expenditure in Wales.
We believe that it is fair. If Brian does not
believe so, I would be glad if he could tell me
why.
You are confusing two
issues. There is an issue about whether any money at all should have been taken from the
surplus in the miners’ pension fund or
whether the surplus should have been
declared. That was not the question that you
asked. It was about the distribution of the
money from the miners’ pension fund and the
contributions that were made by the
Department for the Environment, Transport
and the Regions and the Assembly. I assume
that you still want a reply to the second half
of the question about how the calculation was
made. It was made in two parts, one of which
is the Barnett formula. The Assembly’s
money relates to the normal Barnett formula
between us and the DETR in terms of the
alleged miners’ pension fund surplus. That
was done in proportion to the contribution
made by miners in Wales compared with
miners in Scotland and England. That is a
hybrid but fair formula.
I take it that you are
referring to the Coalfield Regeneration Trust
which, as we have always said, is for
additional costs and does not replace
expenditure that would be undertaken on
derelict land clearance, the construction of
new business premises or on schools or
health centres. It is not a substitute for normal
Government expenditure. That is a
fundamental principle. It is for additional
things that coalfield communities—because
they are ex-coalfield communities—might
need because of problems in moving from
dependence on one employer and an
expectation of life down the pit into a more
diverse future. These communities have
additional needs compared with other
communities that have lost their stable
employment. That is how these funds are
being distributed and accessed and we are
trying to promote that. I helped to promote its
launch in Wales and, as far as I know,
applications are coming into the full-time
office that has been established. If you have evidence that applications are not coming
forward, we will be happy to try to contribute
to redoubling publicity. I am not aware of
any problems at this stage.
Many changes have
occurred in the three years since Labour’s
election, including during the last year since
the Assembly election. The number of
quangos in Wales, including quasi-quangos
such as the training and enterprise councils,
has been sharply reduced and will be reduced
further over the next 12 months. The Finance
Secretary will have more to say on the
general principles of a review shortly.
We are making
progress. The number of quangos is falling.
This can be seen in health, as well as the
Welsh Development Agency which has
rolled up the functions of the Land Authority
for Wales, the Development Board for Rural
Wales, Welsh Food Promotions Limited and
Cardiff Bay Development Corporation’s
development assets. One quango has replaced
four in two halves, which is not bad. The
TECs will disappear on 1 April 2001. There
is a continuous reduction. Mike German may
say that it should happen more quickly or that
we led the electorate to believe that it was
happening more quickly. We never specified
a date on which we would have only five
quangos in Wales. We said that there would
be a drive to reduce the number of quangos in
Wales and, therefore, eliminate the
perception that Wales was run by quangos,
whose members are appointed, as distinct
from being run by Assembly Members, who are all elected.
 I am not sure what is
behind this question because I am not
familiar with the details of this taskforce or
advisory quango. There are many advisory
quangos and there is less opposition to them
because the representatives who sit on them
are unpaid. Therefore, they do not take
money that could be spent on services and
they do not interfere with the Assembly
Secretaries’ work. It is Secretaries who are
accountable for decisions. I am accountable
for decisions on industrial issues, for example
awarding grants, although I receive advice
from the Welsh Industrial Development
Advisory Board. These advisory bodies do
not interfere with the democratic
accountability to the people of Wales for
decisions on public expenditure that are made
by Assembly Secretaries through these
bodies.
I am not sure whether
William picked up the full force of what I
said in answer to Elin’s question. The
Assembly elections were fought on the
fundamental issue of whether Wales, with a
population of 3 million, had room for a host
of quangos and a 60-Member Assembly.
When William’s party ran Wales for 18
years, the strong impression developed that
Wales was run by quangos and that people
who had failed in the electoral process were
appointed as chairs to these boards. That is
unacceptable.
Now we are reducing quangos, there is an
Assembly in place and it is clear to the
people of Wales that Wales is being run
democratically. They can get rid of us but
they cannot get rid of people who are
appointed to quangos by a Government. They
have no control over that process but they can
control whether any of us return in three
years’ time.
 I have discussions with
the Secretary of State at least once a week.
Over the weekend, the Secretary of State and
myself were in Dublin discussing the budget:
it was the budget that scored the first try for
Wales on Saturday afternoon and the other
budget that Gordon Brown presented last
Tuesday.
The budget was a healthy one for Wales
because it brought money into the Assembly,
around £150 million of which was
unexpected. The budget’s measures allow the
economy to grow, which means that people
who are at the bottom of the social scale
benefit from the tax changes introduced by
Gordon Brown.
That is part of the
process of settling down post devolution. Not
all Government departments in London are as
aware of devolution as they should be and this
kind of thing happens from time to time. I am
sure that it will not happen in five years time,
but during this process of settling down in the
first year there will be occasional
inconsistencies and there will be disagreement
about the timing of such an announcement.
Dafydd is correct in one
respect. However, he gives the impression
that many subjects have been set outside the
CSR which is happening at the moment and
will come to an end in July. I am aware of one
subject that has been taken outside the CSR,
namely health. If there is an exception, it does
not mean that the principle has been ruined or
set aside. The principle stands. With the
exception of health, everything else is in the
balance until it comes out in the CSR in July.
We have been pressing for the same principle
namely that the match funding under
Objective 1 be taken outside the Barnett
formula. That is the important principle for
which we are fighting. We continue to put
pressure on the Treasury directly and through
the Secretary of State for Wales.
We do not disagree
with the view that the Treasury needs to
move forward and take the Objective 1
matching money outside the Barnett formula.
Could that have been done at the same time
as health? Does opening up that avenue
because health expenditure was announced
in advance of the CSR mean that any other
item of expenditure should also have been
taken outside? That is an absurdity. An
exception was made for one segment. As it
happens, we—and I do not believe that any
of us are unhappy about that—have an
additional £99 million through the Barnett
formula available for health expenditure, a
further £50 million for education and £9
million for transport and the environment.
We have chosen how to spend it and Edwina
Hart has made an additional £11 million
available from underspend on other areas to
add to the £99 million.
What is Nick saying? Would he rather have
not known about this or would he have
preferred the money to be held back until the
election next year? I presume that he would
then say that we were holding back a war
chest to spend it all during the election next
year. That question does not make any sense.
It is an arguable but desperately thin case to
say that because health was taken outside the
spending review, Objective 1 should also be
taken outside. It would have been nice if that
had happened but you cannot argue that case
strongly. Only one subject was made an
exception. If he thinks that is not popular
with the people of Great Britain, he has not
met any of them over the past few days.
On behalf of the
Economic Development Committee, I made
these points strongly to Gordon Brown in the
run up to the budget. I agree that the impact
of high interest rates, the high pound and the
low euro are devastating in areas of Great
Britain which have a high degree of
dependency on manufacturing industries.
The West Midlands and Wales are two prime
examples of such areas.
 I could not have put it
better myself and I thought that that tackle in
the last five seconds of the rugby match on
Saturday was wonderful. All credit to the
postman from Pencoed, Gareth Thomas, for
that tackle. As Brian knows, I am neutral—
that is why I am wearing this Welsh-Irish
Friendship Society badge today.
I agree with Brian’s point. It shows Labour’s
commitment to correcting inequalities in
society, which remains one of our biggest
problems.
I am tempted to say
that I met Gus Macdonald around the time of
the Wales-Scotland match in the Millennium
Stadium, but people might get the false
impression that I only meet Government
Ministers or the Secretary of State during
rugby matches. However, I have discussed
these matters with Gus Macdonald, and Sue
Essex and I will meet him shortly. Gus
Macdonald, as Minister for Transport,
attends all Cabinet meetings although he is
not a member of the Cabinet. Jane will be
aware that we have made major strides on
this issue but that there is a long way to go.
We have issued a big increase in the bus
grant, the all-Wales rail franchise looks
promising and an additional train is being
funded from Holyhead to Cardiff. If I was a
rugby fan I would say that that was a good
way to come back from a weekend in
Dublin, but I will not mention that again.
I cannot give an
undertaking that there will not be any
withdrawal of bus routes during the life of
this administration in the Assembly. The
Assembly takes a strong view on bus quality
partnerships and we have to approve those
partnerships. There is an increase in the
resources available for bus grants—from £3
million last year to £5 million this year, I
believe. Furthermore, there is an additional
£8.2 million or so available through the
Barnett formula for the coming year that was
not in our budget. Pensioners’ groups and
people in various villages or community
councils who are angry that a bus service has
been withdrawn, and where there is no
alternative railway service, can find out
whether they can access the additional
resources from the £5 million bus grant or
from the additional £8.2 million. Although
the £8.2 million may not be available for
normal bus subsidies—it may be spent on
safer routes to schools or whatever—people
should now be making bids to the local
authority and, perhaps, a bus operator.
We have not managed
that yet, but it looks reasonably promising.
We want to progress further on issues such
as the right to appoint a Welsh representative
to the Strategic Rail Authority. We would
also like the Assembly to have the power to
set up passenger transport authorities should
we choose to do so. We would also want to
have the same power of direction over any
potential single all-Wales franchise as the
Scottish Parliament would have for Scotland.
We have not got there yet, though there has
been major progress since the early stages of
the Transport Bill in securing the right to be
consulted, and so forth. We are not there yet
but it is looking promising
I know that David
likes to rev up in his Range Rover when this
subject arises and tries to be the Jeremy
Clarkson of the Assembly. The question,
however, was about integrated transport. I
believe that we all agree that integrated
transport requires some incentive to switch
from private to public transport. It is not an
easy thing to do. Nothing is simpler for
opposition politicians—at any time when a
move is made towards integrating public
transport— than to say that you are anti-car,
in the hope of picking up the pro-car owner
vote, for want of any other ability to pick up
votes at the next general election. If that is
the line that he wants to take, so be it. I
cannot write the Conservatives’ manifesto
for them for the next election.
You will never achieve integrated public
transport by only saying that the private
motorist must be given unrestricted right to
the roads with no petrol duty or whatever.
David must remember that his own
Government, under Kenneth Clarke, took the
initial steps in 1996 to having a fuel duty
escalator above the rate of inflation as an
extra tax on top of the normal duty on an
inflationary basis. We had two years of it
under the Conservatives and there have been
two years under Labour. The fuel duty
escalator was not implemented in this year’s
tax because the price of crude oil has
increased so much. I believe that he is
literally talking through his hat.
Yes. This question
arose during our discussions over the
weekend. It also arose in light of protests in
places such as Gwauncaegurwen and in rural
areas against Barclays bank, and others,
closing banks while advertising that they
offer a one hundred per cent service to the
people of Wales—in rural areas, in the
Valleys, and so on. The question of what sort
of service major banks such as Barclays Bank
and HSBC Bank plc should offer Wales is a
matter for the Treasury, and not for the
Assembly.
 It is difficult when only
one bank is left in a village where there may
have been two or three banks before. It is a
move from a competitive situation to a
monopoly, and when the bank with the
monopoly withdraws from the town or
village, it creates a great deal of upset.
The Cruickshank Report also looked at the
question of charges for the use of the
automatic teller machines. The Cruickshank
Report offered advice, which people have
heeded, on what to do if the bank starts to
charge a couple of pounds for every
transaction, as they have been doing, and
start closing bank branches, which play a
valuable social function, and then try to dress
it up through massive advertising campaigns
using local heroes like Sir Anthony Hopkins.
The only answer recommended in the
Cruickshank Report is that people should use
the cashback facility with their card in the
supermarket and ask for £50 back. The
Cruickshank Report said that the maximum
sum of £50 that you can get when you pay for
your food in the local grocer or wherever
should be raised to around £250. That would
make the banks reconsider.
The salary that
Barclays Bank pays its senior directors, board
members, chair persons and chief executives
is a matter for Barclays Bank, and not for me.
The industry is not very competitive in the
sense that four major banks have been in
business for almost a quarter of a century,
namely Natwest, Barclays, HSBC plc and
Lloyds TSB. The problem is that the banks
are not always competitive because only one
bank has a branch in a particular area or
town.
The question is how to make practices in the
banking industry more competitive and
responsive to changes in our society. In the
first instance, the answer was the cashpoint
and getting £50 from it. By now, there is
bickering about charging for using the
cashpoint. The cashback facility is available
now, when you go to a shop—perhaps
including Geraint’s shops—and receive £50
in addition to the money that you pay at the
grocers or another shop when you pay your grocery bill. This service has developed and
is free of charge but there is an upper limit of
£50. This could pressurise the banks in the
end because they will lose business if they do
not wake up to the aspects of new
competition that are developing and respond
in other ways so as to change the fact that
they are not as competitive or service
conscious as they should be  I do not remember how
Barclays Bank won the contract to service the
Assembly’s financial requirements. It may be
a follow-on contract from the previous Welsh
Office, or a new contract that was won via
competitive tendering after May or July
1999. When I receive your letter, I will be
able to respond to that issue or I will pass it
to Edwina, as it is more of her responsibility
than mine. I can then explain the terms of the
tender for provision of the Assembly’s
financial services, which Barclays won in
open competition, before or after the
Assembly was established. By Welsh
standards, it is a big contract—not
necessarily a juicy one. It may not be
particularly big by Barclays’s standards
overall. I do not know. Either way, I assume that it was won via competitive tender, and I
imagine that it has not breached the terms of
that tender, whatever it does to its branch
network in Wales. However, in the light of
Huw Lewis’s comments, I am happy to
consider whether there is any leverage in the
proposals that have been made by all parts of
the Assembly and Members here today, if it
is near breaching the terms of its contract.
 That question has two
parts. I think you will accept that, if Barclays
has not breached its contract, it will be
difficult to take the contract from them. I do
not know the duration of the contract, but I
do not expect that it is less than three years
and I assume that it has a minimum of 18
months, maybe two years to run. If it is not in
breach of the contract, I cannot tell Barclays
not to close its branch in Gwauncaegurwen or
it will lose business from the Assembly. I
doubt whether provision of branch banking
throughout Wales was a condition of
Barclays winning the tender in—I assume—
open competition, when the Assembly was
established.
Government policy on the payment of
pensions via post offices and local banks is a
sensitive issue. It is a big issue for people
who live in areas where the nearest market
town is some distance away to ensure that
they do not have to drive 40 miles to cash
their giro cheques or pensions. We must
consider this matter if it becomes a
widespread pattern. The combined threat to
post offices in rural areas, isolated valley
towns or large villages, with the branch bank
network being shrunk so quickly and
severely, could become a real problem for the
people of Wales.
 The
European Affairs Committee is currently
looking at this issue and the report will be
considered at its next meeting on 8 June. The
concordat on co-ordination of European
policy issues states that the UK Government
will provide the Assembly with full and
comprehensive information as early as
possible on all European Union issues that
are of interest to us. The creation of the
Assembly’s own office in Brussels and our
membership of the Wales European Centre
will provide further means of support to
identify the key issues early. The Subject
Committees are the most appropriate place
for discussions about detailed policy and a
series of policy reviews have recently been
prepared which assess the impact of
European policy on different aspects of the
Assembly’s work. These reports will be
considered by each Subject Committee in due
course.
That depends on the
quality of feedback we receive. We are a
collective body but we rely on the three
million people in Wales to lobby the 60
elected Members about issues that concern
them. That is then fed through to the
collective voice of the Assembly. If there is a
pressing issue, which involves the potential
for using the European Parliament and its legislative powers to ameliorate matters, we
can proceed by that means. The issue is
whether we have the backing of the three
million people in Wales on a particular
matter where perhaps there is a Welsh angle
that is different from the UK angle. I am sure
that, if we can persuade people in the rest of
the UK and in Europe that we have a specific
Welsh angle on an issue and strong Welsh
backing for this view, we could make our
voice heard.
Dafydd assumes that
the grass is greener on the Scottish side of the
hill. The Scottish Parliament’s procedures are
not necessarily better than our procedures
simply because they are different. We placed
an obligation on the Subject Committee and
Scotland decided to set up a dedicated
European Affairs Committee. Both our
Subject Committees and Scotland’s European
Affairs Committee can be involved at an
early stage as long as they are aware that
there is an angle on this issue. There is no
reason to suppose that a dedicated European
Affairs Committee—if that was the line of
thought that Dafydd was promoting—will be
any better at catching that sort of issue early
on, where there is a specific Welsh need to be
expressed distinctly from the rest of the UK
or the rest of Europe. Our Subject
Committees can do that if they are astute. In
addition, if officials bring issues to their
notice they can then be considered by the
Subject Committee. Potentially, that is as
good a method as having a separate European
Affairs Committee.
This has long been a
matter of great concern to Welsh farmers,
particularly those involved in the light lamb
export trade from the eastern half of mid
Wales. I cannot answer for the Agriculture
and Rural Development Committee because I
am not aware of whether it has taken a
specific position on this matter. However, it
is a matter for that Committee to state that
there is a subject on which the Welsh view
may be different from the UK view, that it
wants to include the Welsh angle and that it
wishes Europe to know about it. If the
Committee decides to do that, I am sure that
we will follow it through.
 I am not sure to which
wing of the Conservative Party William
Graham belongs. I assume that his reason for
asking this question about influencing
legislation while it is in the European
Parliament is that he believes that that can be
constructive. I do not think that he believes
that ameliorating that legislation is a way of
trying to distance Great Britain from
mainland Europe and widening the English
Channel from 22 miles to 44 miles.
One could argue that we should be debating
whether there is a distinct Welsh interest in
the subject of the euro. However, we should
not try to arrogate to ourselves any kind of
primacy of role in this, relative to the UK Government. We all know what the
Government’s stated position is, and it is an
issue that will be determined by a referendum
either before or after the next general
election, following the Government deciding
at some stage that the so-called economic
tests have been met. We have not reached
that stage yet. Therefore, it is academic at this
stage to start talking about the Assembly
making a determination on whether we are in
favour of Great Britain joining the euro. I
assume, Mick, that you would not be in
favour of Wales joining the euro separately
from the rest of the UK.
There is a problem
about the powers to take part in euro
campaigning activities. I have recently seen
documentation which indicates that the
Government of Wales Act would place some
restrictions on us with regard to participating
in such campaigning activities. Everybody
has a right to a view and we would have a
right to debate the issue. I agree with John
Griffiths to the extent that any part of the UK
that has a high degree of dependency on high
volume, low value, low margin
manufacturing activities, whether it be the
West Midlands or Wales, would have been
better off in terms of employment growth had
we entered the euro at an appropriate rate,
well under 3 deutschmark to the pound,
compared to the present rate of 3.25
deutschmark to the pound. A weak euro has
made Germany very competitive with us and
has put pressure on the car and steel
industries, and on television and component
manufacturing. Our high dependency on
those industries, along with not being in the
euro at an appropriate rate, has also led to the
enormous and unnecessary pressure that they
are under.
I have had no such
discussions with the Home Secretary. I
understand that forces in England and Wales
have been allocated funding from the crime
fighting fund to recruit 5,000 police officers
over and above the number of recruits
originally planned for the next three years.
Following the Home Secretary’s
announcement on 27 March, the recruitment
programme will be brought forward to
deliver all 5,000 recruits within two years.
Welsh forces received an additional 223
officers under the crime fighting fund. They
will also benefit from the £91 million fund to
modernise the police service in England and
Wales, which was announced in the budget a
few weeks ago.
There are matters that
are directly related to the police authorities
and the Home Office. There are also crosscutting issues that involve the Assembly, and
local authorities have duties that have a
strong financial relationship with the
Assembly through the rate support grant.
There is a great deal that the Assembly
wishes to do in terms of helping to fight and
reduce crime and disorder. Crime reduction is
high on the Assembly’s agenda because you
cannot create safer, healthier, happier,
wealthier and smarter communities where
crime is a major problem. We made that clear
during a Plenary debate on crime and
disorder on 12 October 1999. The Assembly
therefore has a strong interest in this issue, but the management, inspection and actions
against police authorities is a function that
remains with the Home Office.
I do not have the
figures in front of me today, but my
understanding is that there has not been a
reduction in the numbers of police officers in
Wales. If I am wrong about that I will write
to Glyn.
Local authorities and
the police can work together to take firm
action to deal with a persistent problem of
that kind. It is not a power that has been used
frequently, if at all, but it is available to be
used. Therefore, the police and local
authorities should not hesitate in using that
power to become involved in order to try to
deal with such a problem. There are probably
such outbreaks in most constituencies once a
year. They need to be dealt with because the
nuisance, pain and aggravation caused to
residents makes them want to leave the area,
subsequently giving that area a bad
reputation, which is then difficult to rebuild.
Nipping the problem in the bud would be
healthier for everybody involved.
 I do not know whether
I can regret that decision, because I am not
sure whether other police forces in Wales
would have lost officers to provide the
additional 100, which, as Kirsty said, would
have been recruited by or would have been
available to Dyfed-Powys Police if the
sparsity formula had been implemented. I do
not know where the money would come
from. Would the same money be reallocated
to sparsely populated areas, therefore taking
it from densely populated areas, or would it
be an extra fund, on which sparsely populated
areas could call, with no deleterious impact
on urban parts of Wales? Until Kirsty gives
me more details, I cannot answer that
question directly.
In the consultation
paper, ‘A Better Wales’, we stated that we
would review all of our major sponsored
bodies—quangos, in old language—by 2003,
so that we can be sure that they are working
in the public’s best interests, making good
use of the funds they receive and fitting in
with the Assembly’s objectives. The Finance
Secretary will shortly announce details of the
review programme. We will consider the
future of each quango in the light of that
review.
Peter has stirred up
several hornets’ nests in that question. I am
sure that he knows that Tom Middlehurst has
advised the Post-16 Education and Training
Committee that the Arts Council of Wales
will shortly be the subject of a special
management review. A further announcement
will be made on that matter.
It is going a step further to say that, in effect,
no quango can make a decision without it
being subject to countermanding by a
Committee or the whole Assembly. That
would remove the ability to have quangos at
all. We must all be aware that, sometimes,
quangos make difficult decisions to terminate
funding for a voluntary, arts or sports body. If
we had to make those decisions, they would
become subjects of tugs of war between
different interests and parts of Wales. That
would be difficult for us to handle. Maybe we
could do so. I wonder whether we could, or
whether it is easier to make the Arts Council
accountable to the Assembly in a special
way, then when it makes a decision that we
do not like, we can countermand it by voting
in Plenary or by transferring the
responsibility of that decision to the Plenary.
In those circumstances, we would not want
quangos; we would do everything openly and
would have to take responsibility for every
decision. Peter must remember that when you
gain as a result of a quango’s decision, you
smile quietly about it and feel warm inside,
but when you lose from one, you scream blue
murder. That is the nature of politics. We
would be in the firing line rather than the
Arts Council of Wales or any other quango
that has difficult winner and loser decisions
to make every year.
The kind of
accountability that we have means that we
sponsor quangos every year and send them a
strategic letter which gives guidance on what
they should do with the money. That is
similar to the type of accountability that
existed when a secretary of state and two
under-secretaries were running Wales, apart
from the fact that we have many more
opportunities to argue about what the
quangos do
Elin used the word ‘direct’. If direct means
taking the decisions to get rid of quangos, for
example the Arts Council of Wales, and do
the same work through a ministry of culture,
I am not sure about that. If we had decided to
establish a culture department within the
existing system, we would have announced
that before this honourable body
I am familiar with that
issue. I have also corresponded with the small
firm in Usk, for which I have the highest
admiration. This matter is probably better
dealt with through correspondence. I have
never regarded that body as, strictly speaking,
a quango. Therefore, I am not sure that the
conflict of interest that you allege relates to
this question. However, I am happy to
entertain correspondence with you, especially
if you seek to draw my attention to anything
untoward in the relationship between the two
bodies and Professor Brown. I have never
heard any personal criticism of him, although
there is a difference of view between him and
the firm in Usk.
I have never been
persuaded of the virtue of the term Assembly
sponsored public body as opposed to quango.
I have not discussed this matter with the
Secretary of State for Wales. However, the
previous First Secretary discussed with him
the question of introducing a statutory basis
to ensure that the Assembly is consulted on
appointments made by other Secretaries of
State in Westminster to non-departmental
public bodies, quangos and Assembly
sponsored public bodies of a wider-thanWales character. That is not being done yet,
but contacts continue about this matter at an
official level.
We have influence
over many of these appointments. The issue
of whether you want to formalise it and
whether Government departments or
Ministers in Westminster are willing to do so
does not mean that we do not have influence.
I agree that we must get away from the tired
old formulate that there must be a statutory
Welsh man or woman on any quango or
Royal Commission. That has probably been
around since David Lloyd George was Prime
Minister. Having a Commissioner for Public
Appointments and an organised procedure
should involve getting away from the
tokenism of having a Welsh man or woman
on every commission or board.
If there is a case on merit for having three
Welsh men or women on a particular board,
then there should be three rather than one. If
there are no qualified Welsh men or women
available, we should accept that on another
board or Royal Commission that would be
the case. There is a case for approaching this
on merit. We must ensure that this is done in
an organised way and that Wales’s interests
are not ignored. We sometimes use informal
influence and sometimes it would be better if
this were laid down in legislation on which
we would be consulted. That has been written
into some legislation that has been introduced
in the past 12 months.
That question is in two
parts. I was exploring the possibility that
there is a better way of making appointments
than how they have been made over the past
100 years where, almost automatically, there
is a token Welsh man or woman on every
commission or board. I am confident that, if
appointments were based on the merit of the
Welsh population, we would be more likely
to have more representation than the token
one.
As for the Disability Rights Commission and
other equal opportunity related bodies, I think
that such bodies wish to ensure that they have
a good geographical and sectoral spread
concerned with different types of disabilities,
inequalities or disadvantage. Most Assembly
Members would like to be a fly on the wall
when appointments are considered in London
and when the issue of how to consult the
Assembly, the Assembly Secretaries or
Plenary are discussed. In general,
Government departments in London ensure
that we are consulted and that we can voice
our opinion. When the board of S4C is
appointed, we are consulted on a massive
scale because the Department of Culture,
Media and Sport cannot see the programmes
and, even if it could, it would not understand
them. It is technically the DCMS’s
appointment but it wants us to be involved in
the same way that a Government department
in London normally would. I am not sure
how big a problem this is in ensuring that we
are fully consulted. There are probably one or
two wrinkles in some departments that have
not recognised the reality of devolution as
quickly as others. I do not think that it is a
major problem but I would be grateful to hear
from anybody who thinks it is.
I agree with that.
Devolution has not meant the end of the
creation of England and Wales quangos.
They will continue to play a major part at this
partially democratic level, depending on how
good the accountability arrangements are.
When that happens, in bodies such as the
Food Standards Agency the level of expertise
on matters of food and public health, food
safety, consumer interest and information
must be ensured. I am confident that when
you do that— provided that you do not rely
on some old boy’s network in the
gentleman’s club in Pall Mall—we would get
good representation based on merit from
Wales. However, we must ensure that the
Assembly trawls among people in Wales to
ensure they realise that they can put their
names forward without fear of being
dismissed out of hand because they are not
members of gentleman’s clubs in Mayfair.
I assume that the
targets to which you refer are the ones
relating to the development of small and
medium sized enterprises, the enhancement
of research capacity and the shift to a
knowledge-based economy. All of those fit in
well with aspects of our Objective 1
programme and with the policy outlines in
‘Betterwales.com’. The Economic
Development Committee will want to
examine the conclusions of the Lisbon
summit and consider their practical
implications for Wales. The Huggins report
from the Cardiff University Centre for
Advanced Studies gave us a low rating. We have been saying for some months that there
is a need to do something with our ability to
generate new jobs in the growth sectors of the
economy for knowledge-based industries and
the research capability within Wales if it is to
catch up with more advanced regions. The
identification of the nub of the problem of the
Welsh economy in the Huggins report is
nothing new. However, the report gets to the
heart of it and we must do something about
building it up. It fits in well with the Lisbon
summit conclusions.
As a research scientist,
that is something about which you have been
concerned for many decades and I share your
concerns. Apart from the Institute of
Grassland Research in Aberystwyth and the
new biomedical research institute that is to be
built on the site of the medical school in
Cardiff, there are few publicly funded
research institutes. That also applies to
university research. It requires more than the
kind of funding that most university
departments can obtain. In terms of the fixed
bodies that can draw in big time money from
the science research council and others,
Wales has always suffered badly by
comparison with Scotland and many of the
English regions leaving aside Oxford and
Cambridge’s domination of this discipline
within the United Kingdom. A knowledgebased economy is now recognised as a
definite part of the economic tools of the
trade to ensure an evening up of the weaker
regions with the richer. That is a key part of
trying to ensure that the knowledge-based
economy takes off in Europe in the same way
as the USA and I am hopeful that we can act
more quickly in correcting the Welsh deficit
in science funding
That moves a little bit
off the issue of the Lisbon summit
conclusions. However, we are keen to see a
full hook-up of Welsh schools to the internet.
That is fairly well established in the USA. It
is not universal yet. It is the UK
Government’s intention to see that it happens
in the UK. As far as Wales is concerned, I
cannot give a target date. When a date
becomes feasible, I will ensure that the
Chamber knows.
Yesterday, the UK
Government announced the start of a
consultation period until 2 May on revised
proposals for the assisted areas map, which
has now been submitted by the Government
for the European Commission’s approval.
The lack of an assisted areas map has
concerned me in my economic development
function, particularly since the European
Commission has approved a map for Ireland,
which is our nearest competitor in another
member state. The fact that we do not have a
map and that our nearest neighbour has had
one since 31 December puts Wales in an
unfavourable competitive position. Although
Assembly officials have continued to make
indicative offers of regional selective
assistance, we all recognised that that
situation could not continue for any length of
time without resulting in considerable loss of
future job prospects. Therefore, I am pleased
that the Government is now moving forwards in submitting new proposals for the
Commission’s approval.
The new proposed assisted areas map is
broadly similar to the one drafted last July
and, overall, it represents a good deal for
Wales. There is no change to the Objective 1
areas carrying over to full development area
status. The original proposals have been
altered in line with changes required by the
European Commission to the way the map
was devised. The principal change is in
ensuring that areas in lower case—the
intermediate development area category—are
contiguous, substantial in terms of
population, and have a large number of
industrial sites relative to the level of
population. Otherwise, the European
Commission would take the view that the
population cut on which it insisted was being
circumnavigated by choosing wards with a
low population but with large industrial sites.
We fought vigorously for the inclusion of
parts of Barry, Wrexham and parts of
Flintshire on the map but, ultimately, we
could not get everything that we wanted into
the map. However, the changes imposed by
Europe have resulted in the proportionate loss
of population in the Welsh intermediate
assisted area, being identical to England and
Scotland. At the same time, the new
methodology has enabled the inclusion of
other strategically important areas in Wales.
Some important sites will be included in the
Government proposals that were not in the
previous proposals and their inclusion is the
result of considerable co-operation between
local government and Assembly officials.
During the next three weeks, the UK
Government will consult with business, local
government and academics on the new map. I
hope that the Commission will give the map
its early approval so that the Assembly can
continue to provide the key forms of business
support, particularly regional selective
assistance, that helped to develop the Welsh
economy.
That is a
misunderstanding. As we are a corporate
body, we cannot say that we will consult
ourselves. We are consultees, although you
can hardly call the Assembly a consultee.
Views such as those expressed today and in
the Economic Development Committee will
automatically be taken into account.
I do not share Phil’s views on the impact of
these changes on north Wales. He contradicts
himself—I would have thought that the
people of north Wales would be pleased that
Broughton is now in the proposed assisted
areas map. Furthermore, the Point of Ayr
area of Flintshire is included. I believe that he
is trying to say that the whole of north Wales
will be devastated by today’s announcement.
He might well say that about Wrexham—I
am sure that there is understandable
disappointment in Wrexham—but I do not believe that Flinthsire will share that
disappointment. One part of north Wales is
not doing well, as distinct from another that
will be deeply relieved. I would have thought
that the south eastern corner around
Broughton and the north western corner
around Ffynnongroyw, Point of Ayr and
Prestatyn will be delighted that they have
been proposed for inclusion in the map.
 I am not sure whether
Alun Cairns is agreeing or disagreeing with
Phil Williams. He started by saying that he
thought that Phil was wrong and ended by
repeating almost exactly what Phil said.
Broughton has been included and, therefore,
the £25 million RSA grant not awarded to
BAE Systems is irrelevant. I am not certain
what he is trying to say.
Alun Cairns is right
that Wrexham and parts of Barry have been
omitted. However, parts of the Vale of Glamorgan, which were not previously
included in the map, are now included. I do
not believe, therefore, that the Vale of
Glamorgan as a whole has been completely
disadvantaged. The issue is almost like the
Arts Council of Wales issue that I mentioned
earlier. If there will be a cut of such-and-such
per cent in the population coverage, that cut
will be the same in Wales, Scotland and
England.
We try to argue the best possible case for
Wales, but you will not get everything that
you want. In the end, you will not get the
whole of Wales included in this map.
Excluded areas will inevitably feel aggrieved.
On the other hand, you must take a balanced
view. You cannot get everything in. How do
you decide which areas to include and which
to exclude? Whatever you decide, local
Assembly Members and local authorities are
bound to kick up a fuss. It is a difficult issue
once you accept that you will not get the
whole of Wales into the assisted areas map—
either as a full development area, where two
thirds of Wales would be included, or the
further 8 or 9 per cent that we have now got
into the second tier assisted areas map.
The methodology
determines the outcome. Once the
Commission says that it wants a 27 per cent
cut in population coverage of assisted areas
throughout the European Community, every
member state has to take a 27 per cent cut or
whatever the figure might be. You must then
decide the criteria by which you will choose
where the 27 per cent cut will go. The
original methodology would have selected
chains of wards. In the Vale of Glamorgan, it
involved going around the top end of Cardiff
and Barry, via Peterston-super-Ely and even
the parish of Michaelston-le-Pit, which is
known to the Llywydd and myself, and
through to Cardiff Wales Airport. The
European Commission rejected that strategy.
They wanted contiguous chunky areas of
about 100,000 population, and also wanted
the omitted areas to be chunky areas of
around 100,000 population
That was a huge restriction. It meant that we
could do a bit of an area like Cardiff because
it has 320,000 people, but we could not do a
bit of Wrexham or the Vale of Glamorgan,
although we managed to include three wards
on the western side of the Vale of
Glamorgan. It meant that either the whole of
the Vale of Glamorgan, barring those three
wards, was in or was out, and likewise for
Newport and Wrexham. If the whole of
Wrexham had been in, the rest of north-east
Wales would have been out. That is why the
areas closest to the Merseyside and Rhyl
Objective 1 areas could be included on
contiguity grounds. Mike and I have a
difference of view on Broughton. Perhaps my
memory or his memory is failing. I will write him a letter of apology if Broughton was in
the previous map and I am wrong. I did not
think Broughton was, but I could be wrong.
The competition
directorate of the European Community is in
charge of assisted areas proposals and it
wanted a big cut. The cut was well over a
quarter of the previous assisted areas. The
British Government was legally advised that
the competition directorate was on firm
ground in ruling out the methodology that
had been used in last summer’s proposals.
After months of debate, the UK Government
decided that it did not want to be taken to
court on the matter. It also decided that it
could not afford the delay that would be
caused by the protracted legal dispute that
David would have liked to have undertaken
in defence of an alternative methodology,
once it was clear that it was going to be
rejected.
David asked whether an assisted areas policy
could be based on areas that need to be
assisted. He also asked if Lisvane is more
prosperous than Barry, and the answer is yes.
Peculiarly, the Lisvane ward adjoins the
Caerphilly area and can therefore be included
legitimately on the grounds of contiguity.
The same applies to the three western wards
in the Vale of Glamorgan, which can be
attached to the Bridgend area on the grounds
of contiguity and still be within the total population cut we were offered. You could
not do that for Barry. There is no contiguity,
because Barry is not adjoined to any other
full development area like Bridgend or
Caerphilly.
You could say that that is the good fortune of
Lisvane and the western wards around
Cowbridge and Llandough, but that is the
way the system works. David is surely not
saying that we should miss an opportunity of
attaching the western edge of the Vale of
Glamorgan, or the northern tip of Cardiff to
the adjoining full development areas in
Caerphilly and Bridgend, because we could
not include Barry because of any contiguity.
It would have been a lost opportunity.
I cannot, but I will
write to him. As far as I remember when I
saw the map, it was the two wards that adjoin
the Caerphilly local authority area. I think
that is probably Lisvane and Pontprennau.
 I am not sure. I do not
want to interfere in the names of wards in
Cardiff.
 I
add my croeso, my welcome, to Delyth
Evans. I am sure that she will prove a
considerable addition to the range of talents
that we have here. People must get used to
what happens when a vacancy occurs among
regional list Members. Instead of coming
here via the stunning by-election victory that
she would have won, Delyth has come here
by way of what might loosely be called a
velvet revolution, without a single blow or
vote being cast.
To respond to Brian’s question, we intend to
issue a consultation paper on sustainable
development indicators and targets within the
next few weeks.
We cannot create our
sustainable development scheme until the
consultation on the indicators is complete. It
is for the Assembly as a whole to decide on
the most appropriate range of indicators for
Wales and to determine what weight to give
to the different indicators. That is the purpose
of consultation. We can then move swiftly to
establish the Assembly’s sustainable
development scheme.
That is moving quite a
way from the question about sustainable
development. I will make a statement to the
Assembly about that after the questions. I
intend to deal with the matter in more detail
at that point. There is no reason for pushing
the panic button as Dafydd seemed eager to
do. If there was an overnight threat to any of
the major integrated works in the steel
industry in Wales, I would be willing to fight
in every way to save the jobs that depend on
them.
 That would be a matter
for the relevant Assembly Secretary. The
issue for which we have overall
responsibility—and for which I take
responsibility as First Secretary—is for a
sustainable development scheme. There have
been delays in drawing up such a scheme,
because we want to be sure that, following
consultation, we set the right indicators,
which are suitable for Wales and its
economy. That relates to the question that
Dafydd Wigley raised earlier. We do not
want to trap ourselves in the old bread versus
beauty arguments that have bedevilled almost
every development in Wales over the past 50
years, whether it be a reservoir in rural
Wales, a steel works or a wind farm. We
know the fundamental arguments. The issue
is how to set indicators that enable us to give
the appropriate priority to converting our
economy from the smoke stack Wales of the
old days to the new knowledge-based
economy. We want to do this with the
minimum of job losses and the maximum
increase in gross domestic product, so that
smoke stack Wales does not become rust
bowl Wales.
One of the Assembly’s
duties is to persuade people not only that they
have their individual part to play in
encouraging recycling, but that recycling is a
major potential creator of jobs, as long as you
are ahead of the pack and not the last people
to begin doing it. If that is the case, when you
start recycling, you buy technology from
countries or areas that are ahead of the game.
That is always a problem. You must commit
yourself early to a recycling target. Then, you
will have evolved the resulting technology,
which can be sold abroad. Countries like
Denmark and Germany, by committing
themselves early to impressive recycling
targets, have also managed to collar a big
export market in capital equipment. We have
tended not to do that because we have been
dragged into it kicking and screaming.
The scheme will
achieve that. Once we have it in place it is
matter of ensuring that we recruit as many as
possible of the people of Wales to sign up to
it. We cannot do that until the scheme is in
place. The Assembly has the overarching
duty of recognising sustainable development.
We are all duly grateful for the leading part
played by Ron Davies and Cynog Dafis,
when the legislation went through the House
of Commons, in ensuring that sustainable
development was written into our
overarching set of obligations. We are
probably the first democratic institution in the
world to have that written into our
constitution. I am not sure that I am right in
saying that but it is certainly rare. It is
important, therefore, that we make it a reality
when the scheme is in place. The scheme
cannot be introduced soon enough, but we
want to get it right.
No it has not. The
Assembly will be responsible for drawing up
the regulations to implement the directive
here but we have not had a material
engagement in drawing up the directive. I
expect the introduction of regulations that
will take advantage of the five years allowed
in the directive to meet the required
standards.
I am well aware of the
issue that David raised about the small-scale
incinerators in rural areas for small fallen
stock, cancerous cows and so on. I am not
aware of the breakdown in communication
that he alleges because I am not sure it exists.
The question of whether there is a need for
higher standards in the maintenance of small
incinerators is important. We must have high
minimum standards to ensure that the
incinerators are suitable for use today. We
accept that, if their costs are high, it is likely
that there will be fewer of them in future.
That poses the risk that fallen stock will be
buried in the corner of a field rather than
being properly incinerated. We hope that that
will not happen, but it is a risk. We must
ensure that we maintain proper standards in
on-farm incineration when disposing of fallen
stock and when using the incinerators for any
other reason.
 I am not sure what can
be done about specified risk material or
cancerous livestock. You cannot talk about
recycling in that case.
I am sorry. I did not
hear the all-important relevant word at the
beginning of the question. Because Elin was
using an English word rather than speaking
completely in Welsh I did not realise she was
saying ‘plastic’.
As for recycling plastic on farms, I am sure
that there is a potential that is not perhaps
utilised, to create industries in rural areas and
create jobs in recycling waste material of this
kind.
We have not discussed
that matter with the Treasury. The United
Kingdom Government has said that the
money that it has received from the auction of mobile phone licences will be used to
reduce the national debt. Interest payments
on that debt are part of public expenditure. A
reduction in the national debt can mean lower
public expenditure or the same public
expenditure with reduced interest rates that
would lead to more expenditure on
programmes, as Dai and I would wish.
Because of European
agreements on the steel industry, there is no
possibility of paying any kind of subsidy.
Therefore, one part of Dai’s question is
irrelevant. You cannot pay public money into
the steel industry because of the agreements
that we, as a country, have with Europe.
With regard to securing an equitable share for
Wales of the profit made by the Government
from selling the licences through the auction
system, I explained how we have more scope
to gain money from the profit by reducing the
amount paid in interest on the national debt.
Also, if the Government decides to increase
the level of public expenditure on
programmes, we will get our share through
the Barnett formula.
To say that nothing is
happening is a ludicrous misconstruction of
events. Last week, in the presence of the
esteemed figure of the leader of the Liberal
Democrat Group in the Assembly—replacing
Phil Williams, who was otherwise engaged—
we had the second meeting of the shadow
monitoring committee. Much progress was
made in reaffirming the commitment to fasttrack early expenditure of money via
Objective 1 before the summer recess. The
commitment that we reaffirmed in that
meeting in Mountain Ash confirms that Nick
has got it completely the wrong way round
and that we are committed to a fast-track
early launch of Objective 1 expenditure. One
can, in a simple five-year-old
mathematician’s way, say that, if Wales had
5 per cent of £2.2 billion, it would have—I
cannot work out how much it is—£1.1
million. The fact that we received additional
funding from this year’s budget of £150
million and an additional £1 billion in the
forward commitment on the health service
over the next three years, gives the lie to the
idea that we have been short-changed on
public expenditure. I discussed the issue with
the Chief Secretary to the Treasury, the Prime
Minister and the Chancellor of the
Exchequer. They believe that we must wait
until the completion of the comprehensive
spending review in July before making
decisions on public expenditure, with the sole
exception of the announcement that was
made for the national health service, out of
which Wales got its full Barnett formula
share.
 If anybody had a magic
wand and could apply it to bring the level of
the euro up to the level we all know it should
be, they would be George Soros billionaires
overnight, but nobody knows how to do that.
If only we knew how to bring the pound
down or the euro up to a reasonable level,
reflecting purchasing power parity between
the euro zone and the United Kingdom.
Unfortunately, I do not believe that anyone
knows. The purchase of euro bonds would
not achieve that objective, as it might have
the reverse effect on market sentiment to
what you would expect. That is the problem.
Market sentiment towards the euro must
change. I am confident that it will, but neither
Michael German, I nor anyone knows
whether it will happen tomorrow, next
month, in a year’s time or in five years’ time.
Sue Essex and I hope
to meet Gus Macdonald shortly to discuss
transport issues in general and I will raise the
question of air transport in Wales. Alison
Halford will probably be aware that the
Assembly and the Department of the
Environment, Transport and the Regions
have jointly commissioned a study of air
services in Wales. The study is nearing
completion and we will hold a consultation
on the results later this year.
 That is a matter for the
Houses of Parliament, not for the Assembly.
It is a matter of what attitude you take to a
public-private partnership—whether you
consider it to be a sell-off, a privatisation or
the public sector being able to access the
wall of money that is available in the private
sector to achieve the necessary investment in
air traffic control. There is no point in the
Assembly discussing it as though it was a
devolved matter when it is a reserved matter
on which there will be important votes later
today in another place.
: I would consider the
proceedings of the debate. As I have not
taken part in the debate, and as my presence
here prevents me from doing so, it is difficult
to answer that question. You could not fly in
and decide how to vote at 10.00 p.m. tonight
when you have not taken part in the debate.
As I said in my reply to
an earlier question, the UK Government has
made it crystal clear that the proceeds of the
mobile phone auction will be used to reduce
public sector debt. When you reduce public
sector debt, you can either maintain public
programme expenditure but with a reduction
in debt and interest rate payments, or you can
maintain the overall level of public
expenditure but with a higher level of
programme expenditure to replace the
reduced interest expenditure. It is as simple
as that.
It is not complacency
at all. That is infantile, wish list politics. You
could say that Wales should have all of the
£22 billion from the auction. Why not? What
is the point if Plaid Cymru says that we
should have 5 per cent of it, I say that we
should have 10 per cent, the Conservatives
say 15 per cent and the Liberals say 20 per
cent? Where does it stop? I do not see the
point of saying ‘if you do not ask for it, we
will’. That shows that we are more interested
in getting higher public expenditure in Wales.
I could outbid Ieuan and say that I am going
to ask for twice as much as he is asking for.
Gordon Brown has said that the money will
be used to reduce public debt. That decision
has been taken and that results in reduced
public expenditure. You can disagree with
him. If you were Chancellor of the Exchequer
you would do it differently and give it all to
Wales, would you not Dafydd?
You would not? Why
would you not give all £22 billion to Wales?
What is the point of you being Chancellor of
the Exchequer and not giving all £22 billion
to Wales?
I was responding to
sotto voce comments.
 I am pleased to say that
the official opening of the Assembly office in
Brussels will take place next week on 16
May. This will help to ensure that our
interests are upheld within the European
Union.
In Cardiff, we continue to have close links
with the policy divisions and the division that
deals with European issues, as regards
transferring information to me, to every
Committee and to the Assembly Cabinet
Secretaries to ensure that we would ask for
the right to be part of the United Kingdom
delegation in the Council of Ministers of the
European Union if that was necessary.
 I accept the principle
behind the question and I said that in the
seminar in Swansea to which Rhodri Glyn
refers. When it is relevant for us to be part of
the delegation, I am keen for that to happen.
Scotland has been present in the European
Union Council of Ministers more often than
we have because Scotland takes a prominent
role on such issues as fishing and forestry
because of its importance to those industries
in the United Kingdom. Scotland follows the
delegation or plays a 50:50 part with the
Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food
in London.
The presence of
Assembly Secretaries at Council of
Ministers’s meetings is of no value unless
there is feedback to the Committee system.
The Committees must be involved on a
50:50 basis with the Assembly Cabinet in
policy formulation. If a matter requires our
presence as part of the UK delegation, it
should involve consultation with the
Committee before the relevant Assembly
Secretary goes to Brussels and consultation
and feedback to the Committee after the
Secretary has taken part in the Council of
Ministers’s meeting.
Given the few occasions at which we have
been present in Brussels during the first 12
months of our existence, there has not been
much opportunity to test that. I would like
to ensure that, between now and the next
Assembly elections in 2003, Assembly
presence in UK delegations to the Council
of Ministers will be more frequent.
However, the issue under discussion must
be relevant to Wales. We cannot just decide
that we would like to go. It must involve a
Welsh interest that requires promotion or
defending. That is why Christine Gwyther,
as the Secretary for Agriculture and Rural
Development, is more likely to go than
anybody else although others may be
involved where there is a specific Welsh
interest. I intend to give much attention to
that matter over the Assembly’s next year.
The scrutiny of
European legislation is a difficult area for
the House of Commons, less so perhaps for
the House of Lords. All member states
struggle with how to give adequate scrutiny
to the sheer volume of new directives and
regulations emerging from Europe. We
should be looking mainly to get our own
house in order to ensure that we do our
proper job of scrutiny, in conjunction with
the Lords and the Commons. If there are
areas that you want to write to me about,
where you feel that legislation has gone
through unscrutinised with an impact on
Wales because of the weakness of our
system, I would be grateful if you would
draw those to my attention.
partnership must identify its priorities in
collaboration with police forces, voluntary
groups and local authorities. The
appointment of a crime reduction director
for Wales is to be announced shortly. It will
be funded by the Home Office but will be
part of the Assembly’s officialdom and will
be a hugely important step in prioritising
crime reduction in rural, as well as urban,
areas. That will provide added impetus and
support to the work of the local
partnerships.
This is not a matter
for the Assembly directly on a top down
basis. The Crime and Disorder Act 1998 is
based on the idea of local partnerships. It is
very much for them to decide how they
want to approach and set priorities in their
area in conjunction with police, voluntary
groups, neighbourhood watches and local
authorities, whose duty it is.
 I met the chief
executive of Hyder two hours ago. We
discussed this issue. It is an extremely
difficult time to talk publicly about it
because there is a suspicion that another bid
is pending. The other bid, allegedly, will
involve the break up of the company and
might, according to the worst estimates,
involve a loss of 1,000 jobs in Wales,
compared with the Nomura bid. However,
as we have not seen it yet, that is based
entirely on rumour. I do not want to fan the
rumour mills. Our knowledge of the second
bid is based on press speculation. Nomura,
who wish to take Hyder over but keep it as a
Welsh-based company, but without a stock
market float, looks as though it would save
all the jobs that Hyder have previously
announced and they would stay within the
company. I understand that that is about
9,000 jobs.
 As I said, as regards
the windfall tax, 5 per cent.
No. It is 10 per cent if
you double the responsibility of the
company in its response to the windfall tax
and how it handled it itself. I said that
jointly it was 10 per cent.
I am broadly
sympathetic to Dafydd’s observations. Any
bid that involves over 1,000 or more job
losses in Wales than another bid—if that
was to happen—would be against public
interest in Wales. It is not in the public
interest to lose 1,000 jobs. The complication
arises in Dafydd’s second observation. Can
he honestly say that it is a competition issue
because of the 1,000 job losses? There is a technical aspect to the competition issue that
arises from the expected part of the second
bid. It involves using the project glass
consumer co-operative methodology for
running the water and sewerage regulated
business which is seen as a device for
getting around the water to water merger
competition issue. The director general of
the Office of Water Services would almost
certainly want that referred to the
Competition Commission. That is not the
same as saying that, because 1,000 jobs are
lost in Wales, it is against the public interest
and should therefore be referred to the
Competition Commission as potentially
anti-competitive. Those two issues are not
the same. We would find it difficult to argue
that they could be wrapped up together in
this way. If the second bid involves a
substantial chunk of job losses, as much
possibly as 1,000 in Wales in comparison
with the first bid, we will fight it on the
basis of the 1,000 jobs rather than invent
pseudo-technical arguments linking it with
competition when that is not the issue.
That is not yet clear.
The biggest impact will probably be in the
big call centres. I do not believe that there is
one in Brecon although there used to be
when Welsh Water’s headquarters was
there. As far as I am aware, the biggest
threat would be to the head office operations
in Cardiff. Whichever company takes it over
must have operational depots but a head
office or call centres in Wales dealing with
electricity and water enquiries are not
necessarily needed. That is where the bulk
of the alleged 1,000 job losses in the second
bid would occur. It would not be in the
smaller depots that are necessary to operate
the sewage plants, the water treatment
plants, to look after electricity pylons and so
on.
You will all be aware
of the press speculation surrounding the
future of Corus’s plants in Wales—
particularly the Llanwern and Port Talbot
integrated strip mills— which have included
ill-judged phrases over the past few days
such as, ‘Llanwern is on the brink’. There
may be reason for concern but not for panic.
First, let us look at the economic
fundamentals. The UK is in good macroeconomic health and forecasts predict robust
economic growth in Britain and mainland
Europe over the next few years. That means
that European demand for steel for
construction, household goods, industrial
products or cars should remain strong.
Second, the excellent management and
workforce at what used to be called, British
Steel have ensured that the Corus plants in
Wales are among the most modern in the
world. There has been massive investment
in Wales in capital and training over the past
decade. Only last year, the Capital
Annealing Plant project, the world’s most
advanced coil annealing line came on
stream at Port Talbot. Third, the British
Steel-Hoogovens merger last summer has
ensured that Corus is a financially powerful,
multi-metal international company. It has
the advantage if there are difficult times in
Britain and better times in mainland Europe,
or vice versa, of having plants in both
market areas. That provides a good head
against short term currency and steel market
fluctuations.
However, despite these points, there is a
major problem because of the current
strength of sterling or, more correctly,
considering the pound:dollar rate, the
weakness of the euro. That is a problem for
all UK exporters but especially for
companies in markets such as steel, which
are high volume, low margin commodity
products. Another difficulty with steel from
the UK is that when the euro is weak,
imports are priced either in dollars for raw materials or sterling for plant costs, whereas
the product is priced in deutschmarks or,
effectively, euros. That applies even to steel
sold within the UK. It is still priced in
deutschmarks or euros. In the case of British
Steel, analysts used to say that a 10 pfennig
deterioration in the deutschmark:pound
exchange rate could cost companies such as
British Steel £100 million per annum on the
bottom line. The two Welsh strip mills have
a production capacity of six million tonnes
per annum, half of which is exported, the
bulk of it to Europe. The key question is
whether the euro:pound exchange rate
problem is short-term or long-term. I
understand that Corus is reviewing the
operation of its UK plants and I am sure that
it will take the long-term view, both in
respect of market demand and exchange rate
issues. Both the Secretary of State for Trade
and Industry, with whom I discussed this
yesterday, and I are monitoring the situation
closely. I had a meeting with Nick Cragg,
Corus’s senior person in Wales, before
Easter and Nick briefed several Assembly
Members last week at Port Talbot.
While it is true that Wales is no longer
totally reliant on coal and steel, Corus
operations in Llanwern, Port Talbot, Ebbw
Vale, Llanelli, Shotton and elsewhere are of
huge importance and still an important
contributor to the economy, as is the
manufacturing sector more generally which
accounts for 30 per cent of our gross
domestic product and 200,000 jobs. After
the BAE Systems plant at Broughton, the
biggest plants in Wales in terms of job
numbers are Port Talbot and Llanwern, with
over 3,000 employees each. We are doing
everything we can to preserve the position
of manufacturing in Wales, through the
establishment of the Wales Automotive
Taskforce to assess the impact on Wales of
the Rover situation. It was of considerable
assistance to hear this morning that the
Phoenix consortium has signed the deal with
BMW. It was also good to hear of the £500
million investment by Vauxhall in UK car
production announced last week.
No state aid is allowed in the steel industry,
by European treaty. I urge Corus not to take
any precipitous decision on the basis of the euro remaining at its current weak level. No
economic pundit would have said a year ago
that the pound would be worth almost 3.5
deutschmarks now. I doubt that he or she
would have commanded much confidence
among their colleagues if they had, and
while I have no crystal ball I urge Corus not
to take any decisions based on sterling
remaining at its current elevated level
against the euro. Against both the dollar and
the yen, sterling is not far from its 1996
position. The pound has appreciated against
the euro and its constituent currencies,
overwhelmingly the deutschmark. This
almost certainly reflects developments
inside the euro zone and the lack of
confidence in the euro rather than the UK. It
is clear that the Treasury understands the
concerns that businesses trading within
Europe have as a result of the rise in the
pound:euro rate. I have written to the
Chancellor of the Exchequer to express my
concern about the special position of Wales
and other manufacturing-dependent regions.
I reassure the Assembly that the Treasury,
the Department of Trade and Industry, the
Bank of England and myself are all
monitoring the situation at Corus closely.
The company has assured us that while
matters are under serious review, no
decisions have yet been taken on future
plant configurations.
I agree with the first
part of Mike’s question. The figures that we
have been given show that the proceeds, as
denominated in pound sterling, of exporting
a tonne of steel in 1995—before the rise in
sterling started in 1996—would have been
£445. By 1999, that revenue had dropped to
£300 because of the rise in sterling between
1996 and 1999. That figure will have
dropped further due to the further rise in
sterling during the first four or five months
of this year, which has taken everybody by
surprise. Although steel prices have risen
and have firmed up considerably, the
sterling receipts that you would get from a
weak Deutschmark-denominated steel price
on the continent would be far less, probably
well below £300, compared with £445 in
1996. It is difficult to export that other half
of Llanwern and Port Talbot’s output to the
continent and to make a profit from it.
Secondly, does anybody know how to
increase the euro and reduce the pound? I do
not believe so. The market sentiment that
has driven the pound up against the euro
since last Christmas from around 3.10 to
3.46 deutschmarks to the pound has taken
everybody by surprise. Nobody knows
exactly what triggers market sentiment,
which could therefore be reversed by any
combination of action by the European
Central Bank, the finance ministers of the
15 countries of the European Union or the
G8 finance ministers. If only people knew
how to do it, I believe that they would, but
we must somehow change market sentiment
towards the euro. If he has a suggestion on
how to do it, I would be glad to pass it on to
Gordon Brown.
No, not at all. Phil is
completely wrong if he is asking Gordon
Brown to increase the inflation maximum
target given to the Bank of England
monetary policy committee from, say, 2.5
per cent to 3.5 per cent. As a consequence,
the Bank of England monetary policy
committee would probably have to raise,
and not lower, interest rates. The
expectation of raised interest rates would
drive up the level of the pound even further.
The issue of how to target the market
sentiment has caused the euro to be shunned
like a leper currency, even though,
theoretically, it should be the most solid
currency in the world after the US dollar
and the Japanese yen. For some reason, the
euro has not got off the ground in terms of
market confidence. That is the key issue. It
is not that we are doing anything wrong in
this country. If that was the case, the pound
would have appreciated against the dollar
and the yen, which it has not done. It has
only dropped against the euro because the
euro has collapsed, and continues to
collapse. At some point it will turn around
but we do not know whether that will
happen tomorrow or in five years time, nor
do we know what market sentiment
conditions are necessary backdrops to that
change in sentiment. Phil Williams is
implying that I or Gordon Brown have a
magic wand, which we keep up our jersey
for some perverse reason so as to favour the
south-east of England over Wales. Nothing
could be further from the truth.
The issue is whether
and when that statement will come true.
You have asked me if I am saying that
Llanwern is going to close. I am saying that
that is wrong. Last weekend’s statements
that Llanwern is on the brink of closure are
not correct. There is a threat and every
reason for concern but there is no reason to
press the panic button, as I think William
Graham wants and as some other Assembly
Members have expressed today. This is not
the time for panic buttons. It is a time for
keeping a close eye on the steel industry,
and seeing what can be done to avert the
threat to the viability of the steelworks if the
management of Corus take the view that the
pound:euro rate will remain roughly where
it is over the next few years. That could be very damaging.
I do not regard the news that the Phoenix
consortium has signed the deal with BMW
this morning as adverse. I referred to it in
order to raise the question of the market for
steel in the UK. I did not mean that in terms
of whether I think that Phoenix will make a
profit next year. I mean that it provides a
market for the strip steel from Llanwern and
Port Talbot. That is the important aspect,
and I hope that Vauxhall does the same with
its big investment. I do not doubt that there
is bad news on the way from Ford, which
may counteract that. We have heard the
press speculation. It is not all good news in
the steel market. Corus has said that its
biggest concern is the combination of the
high pound relative to the euro and the
gradual shift of the centre of gravity of the
automotive industry from the United
Kingdom towards mainland Europe. This
would be tokened by the outright closure of
Longbridge or the shift of production of the
Ford Fiesta, or its new model, from
Dagenham to Germany. That is why I
regard this morning’s Phoenix deal or last
week’s Vauxhall announcement as being
good news, not bad. He should share that
good news because it may help to provide a
lifeline for Port Talbot and Llanwern.
The definition of what
is state aid is a matter for lawyers, not for
me. However, it means that regional aid
type subsidies or direct assistance to keep a
steel plant going against the commercial
judgement of a company is banned by the
European Coal and Steel Treaty—in the
steel industry, not the coal industry.
Research and development can be funded as
they are not considered to be state aids, as
can amending certain local acts, such as
coming to an arrangement in relation to the
climate change levy. The Government is
more flexible about trying to reach targets
with industries, such as steel, to improve
their energy efficiencies so that they are not
big losers from the climate change levy, as
they would have been following the first
draft of that bill two years ago. The
Chancellor of the Exchequer can consider
areas such as those, that do not infringe the
ban on state aids.
Entry into the euro is overwhelmingly
determined by the rate at which you would
wish to do so. If we tied ourselves into the
euro at what is currently 3.46 deutschmarks
to the pound, there would not be a factory
left in Wales in five years’ time because
nobody could withstand that rate for long.
Entry into the euro at 2.80 deutschmarks or
whatever the rate would have been four or
five years ago, before the big rise in sterling
started in 1996 when Kenneth Clarke was
Chancellor of the Exchequer, would have
been beneficial. There was no euro to enter
at the time, therefore it is not really material.
However, if we enter, it has to be at
something similar to the rate prior to the
long appreciation of sterling against the
euro, which started under the Conservative
Government and has continued for the last
three years under Labour.
As regards investment in Llanwern, Corus
has a three-phase approach to the question
of how to handle the high pound and low
euro. The first phase is to hope that it turns
around. Corus has stopped hoping that now.
The second is to look at investment
decisions, such as blast furnace relines and
so on. The third, which we have not yet
reached, is to look at plant
reconfiguration—closure of either the heavy
end or the whole of a plant. We must
remember that if any job losses arise, first, it
could affect an entire integrated works,
which would be the worst situation of all.
Secondly, it could affect only the heavy end
of a plant, such as blast furnaces, sinter
plants, coke ovens, steel plants and so on.
Finally, it could involve any of the discrete
plants which do not have hot metal
facilities, such as the tinplate works at Ebbw
Vale and at Trostre in Llanelli, the Shotton
works in north-east Wales, Bryngwyn and
the smaller plants dotted around the
Swansea and Newport areas. However,
everybody says that the likeliest candidates
for early closure are the heavy ends of the
plants at Port Talbot, Llanwern or Redcar in
the north-east of England.
Thank you, Janet, for
giving us the benefit of your expertise on
body language. Only 20 minutes ago, I was
accused of being too relaxed and
complacent. You are now saying that I am
wound up and unhappy. I do not know
whose is the more expert analysis of my
psychology.
We must try to keep this situation in
balance. I will repeat what I have said
before. There is no reason for panic, but
there is every reason for concern, because
we know that this is a difficult situation for
the company. Above all, it is difficult for the
employees at works where plant
reconfiguration—that is, closure or partial
closure—may be necessary in future,
possibly in future months, we do not know.
I entirely agree with Janet about the
workforce at Port Talbot and at the other
plants in the Welsh steel industry—they
have been flexible and have a superb
productivity record. They have used new
technology at the CAPL—continuous
annealing plant in Port Talbot and the
Zodiac plant in Llanwern extremely well to
produce top-quality and high-value added
steels of flat product type that are suitable
for the modern automotive industry and for
export. However, at the current exchange
rate, it is difficult to export at a profit.
Regardless of whether Janet Davies thinks
that I am unhappy or not, there is a threat
but there is no reason to panic.
It is incorrect to say that Llanwern and Port
Talbot are on the brink. However, there is
reason for concern because Corus cannot
export at a profit. Six million tonnes of steel
is produced in Port Talbot and Llanwern
and if there is only a market for 3 million
tonnes of stripped steel in the UK, the
company must be able to export that
stripped steel and it cannot continue with
that at a loss for long without its
shareholders losing faith in it. That is the
problem currently facing the company,
which is why the Assembly must continuously review the situation.
Brian mentioned the
rise in the level of business rates that is
payable this year. It was started five weeks
ago by Corus, which is unhappy about the
rates. It may or may not have misunderstood
the nature of the transitional relief scheme
that we introduced. Its rate bills have
increased by 8 per cent this year. However,
it would not have been eligible for
transitional rate relief even if it had been a
small firm because rates have to increase by
10 per cent before you can be eligible.
Brian’s point on infrastructure in Port
Talbot is important because the steel works
are superbly well equipped with a huge deep
water port—one of the best in Europe,
which can take all carriers of 150,000
tonnes. That is of major assistance to the
works in maintaining low costs. In addition
to CAPL—the continuous annealing plant
that I mentioned, it has a good research and
development laboratory, which I am sure
Brian has visited, which employs 400
scientists and engineers. It is a wellequipped works but all works will struggle
while the pound:deutschmark or pound:euro
rates remain at their current levels. I am sure
that if there are works with a good chance of
surviving, Port Talbot is one of them and I
am sure that it will continue to battle to sell
every strip of top-quality continuously
annealed steel. It is wrong to artificially
depress morale to get cheap newspaper
headlines, which may have happened last
week by talking-up this subject in time for
the Sunday newspapers to get a big
headline. There is a crisis of unprofitability
in the British end of Corus and I am sure
that the Department of Trade and Industry,
the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the
Assembly would do anything that they
could legitimately do to try to assist Corus.
It certainly is not
inevitable. The biggest single benefiting
change from today’s situation would be a
change in sentiment towards the euro. I am
not asking Alun to try to lead a crusade in
the Conservative Party to talk up the euro
because he would not be its most effective
advocate. One way or another, we need a
change in market sentiment towards the
euro against its absurdly undervalued
present state rather than trampling on the
euro’s grave and saying ‘ha ha ha, is it not
wonderful that the euro is sinking fast’
because it proves that anti-Europeans were
right after all. If the euro continues to sink it
will increase the pressure to close plants in
Wales. We need a change in sentiment
towards the euro to restore it to its
purchasing power parity relative to the
pound. It would then be easier for Britain to
consider joining in a rational mood rather
than in a politically hyped-up mood that
people like Alun Cairns tend to cause.
On the other taxes, I half agree with Alun on
the climate change levy in its original form.
That would have been a heavy burden.
However, following representations by the
Assembly, myself, the industry and others,
there have been huge changes in the climate
change levy. Eighty per cent of the climate
change levy for the steel industry is now
rebated provided that an agreement is
reached with the Treasury on energy
efficiency measures.
To imply that there is no flexibility or
willingness to listen to industry is absurd.
People in the Assembly do listen to
industry. If they feel that something places
an undue burden that contributes to making
British industry, particularly key industries
like steel, uncompetitive, changes are made.
That has happened with the climate change
levy. If Alun wants to present constructive
points that are within the gift of the
Assembly, the Department of Trade and
Industry or the Treasury, I am sure that we
will be able to put a persuasive case for
trying to ease some of the burdens on the
Welsh steel plants without infringing the
ban on state aids arising from the European
Coal and Steel Community.
 Let us be reasonable.
Business rates, even if you were to abolish
them for the Port Talbot works, would save
it £1.8 million, as I understand it.
I am sorry, I
misunderstood that. Let us put it this way: if
the pound:euro rate changed, even back to
its level last Christmas, when it was already
high, on half of the production that Port
Talbot must export, that would gain it £100
million in additional revenue. That is a far
bigger change that anything relating to the
business rates. That is just on the Christmas
to May increase in the pound:euro rate from
about 3.05 to 3.46 deutschmarks to the
pound. That is what makes the big
difference, not tinkering with the business
rates, which, as I said, increased by 8 per
cent this year.
The issue of what else can be done in terms
of the climate change levy has been
considered. According to last week’s
newspapers, Gordon Brown has agreed to
defer for six months the tax change to which
Peter referred. However, if I am wrong, I
will write to him about that. There have
been developments in the past seven days
on that.
: I
spoke to Stephen Byers, the Secretary of
State for Trade and Industry, about the
stricter consents policy shortly before he
announced his decision to lift the
moratorium. I would not claim that my phone
call led directly to that lifting because any
moratorium is short term. I explained to
Stephen Byers the importance of having a
secure, reasonably priced electricity supply
on Anglesey, and the impact that it would
have on the island’s economic regeneration,
particularly the northern side, which is one of
the weakest economic areas in Wales. You
will have a particular interest, Ann, in the gas
reserves—and the impact of their
exploitation—off the north Wales coast close
to your constituency, if a gas-fired power
station at Rhos-goch is established as we
would hope and anticipate, and if any
additional exploitation of those reserves were
to happen.
The Rhos-goch issue
has been complicated by the fact that there
were three applicants, namely Canataxx, Egni
Biomass Ltd and Burlington Resources (Irish
Sea) Ltd. However, the Isle of Anglesey
County Council has now given a preference
to Burlington Resources (Irish Sea) Ltd, to
see if it can make the best use of the site in
connection with the former oil pipeline,
which can be reused as a gas pipeline, to
exploit the north Wales coast gas reserves.
That can be used to establish an efficient 560
megawatt combined cycle gas-fired power
station, which would also be a catalyst for
alleviating the economic problems of the
northern half of Ynys Môn.
Yes. In November
1999, the people of Anglesey were
disappointed when Helen Liddell, the
Minister for Energy, did not give Rhos-goch
the go ahead during the period of the
moratorium on new gas-fired power stations.
She did not exempt it from the general
moratorium because, although the scheme
would have made significant heat supplies
available, they were not sufficient to
demonstrate the kind of efficiency levels for
combined heat and power set out in the
October 1998 White Paper. Those levels
were hurdles to cross to overcome the
moratorium. They required thermal
efficiency levels of around 70 per cent and
the station offered around 60 per cent.
As the moratorium comes to an end at the
end of this year, we expect that station to
proceed. We also expect that to prolong the
life of the Anglesey Aluminium smelter
plant. It may also attract other industries that
are looking for an energy park environment
and that can use the steam or the energy. We
hope that Rhos-goch will develop in a similar
way to Baglan Energy Park in Port Talbot.
One of Wales’s
geographical curiosities is that Holyhead is
two hours from Dublin and six hours from
Cardiff. However, Welsh geography is
beyond our control. It is not a matter of
whether Cardiff is far away, but of the quality
of the representation provided by north Wales
Members to ensure that the case is presented.
I am sure that Peter does not believe that the
quality of representation in north Wales is
insufficient to enable the case to be made for
this development, or in Beaumaris to have
their full planning procedure rights.
However, you cannot exempt developments
from the normal planning procedure,
regardless of whether they are next door to
the Assembly building or far away from here
and nearer to a capital of another member
state of the European Community. The same
rules must apply to every development that
comes before us. If it raises issues of more
than local significance, the usual call-in
procedure or a public inquiry must be
considered. You cannot ask for an exemption
for developments because of some rule about
mileage from Cardiff.
It behoves us all to
think about what happens after gas reserves
run out. I might differ from Christine by 10
years and say that it will be more like 30 than
20 years. Much will depend on the point I
made earlier in response to Ann Jones, that
this may stimulate further exploration activity
for more gas reserves off the north Wales
coast. They may find some; they may not—
that is in the lap of the gods or in the lap of
the skills of the people engaged in the
exploration activity. However, at some point
there will have to be a switch to renewable
forms of energy. Ynys Môn is extremely rich
in this respect on account of the strength of
the sea currents and the availability of wind
resources. Off-shore and on-shore wind farms
could be established there as well as tidal
current power stations. In 30 years’ time we
will not be running short of energy, although
its cost might be different from that of the
gas-fired power station that we are now
talking about. However, a combined cycle
gas-fired power station—if it manages to sell
all its bare heat, in other words, the steam—is
also a very energy efficient method of
generating power and finding a use for the
waste heat. Even after the combined cycle
has taken some of the heat, you still have
spare steam. If you can find good industrial
or agricultural use for that, you have a very
high level of energy efficiency.
Securing better health
and welfare for the people of Wales is one of
our main priorities in the Assembly.
Elements of our health policy for Wales are
included in the strategic plan, which
acknowledges the need to address and resolve
the fundamental problems of ill health in
Wales at the same time as endeavouring to
improve the standard and the performance of
the national health service in Wales. In
addition, trying to reduce inequalities in our
society is crucial in order to progress in this
area.
No. The principle of
our national health service means that there is
a need for guidance. In addition, decisions
are being devolved to the health authorities
and trusts and they have to submit their
business cases to us. We decide which project
best fits the priorities in the strategic plan this
year or next year. Discussions are continuing
between officials of Bro Taf Health
Authority, our officials in the Assembly and
Pontypridd and Rhondda NHS Trust
concerning the project to have a new hospital
in the lower Rhondda valley. Following those
discussions, they will consider buying a site
for the new hospital and preparing a business
case to submit it to us as a capital project.
Dafydd has raised a
reasonable point, on one level, but I think that
he would accept that there are two ways for a
national health service to organise its
priorities. One can give a very high priority
to those who are very ill, which means that
those who are ill—but not seriously ill—will
tend to wait unreasonably long, two or three
years perhaps, because they need surgery for
something like bunions or corns.
I believe that the majority of objective people
would say that if you are seriously ill, it is
better to live in Wales. If you are ill, but not
seriously ill, it would be better to live in
England.
Yes. With the major
additional injection of funding announced by
Chancellor of the Exchequer in the March
budget for this year, next year and the year
after. There is no reason why those objectives
for waiting list reductions should not be
achievable.
The questions that you
and David have put to me illustrate the fact
that any responsible minister—whether a
First Secretary or a Health Secretary—is
never in a win-win situation. If you say that
you will concentrate on waiting lists, you will
receive the criticism that you have just made,
that it distorts clinical priorities. If, however,
you say you will adhere to clinical priorities,
you will be attacked for failing to tackle the
problem of people who have to wait for two
years or more to have their bunions or their
corns fixed by surgery, and who may be in
considerable pain while they are waiting
\I concur with Kirsty’s view that clinical
priorities are more important than the
political objectives of saving ministers’ skins
in London or secretaries’ skins in the
Assembly. It is not about headlines, but about
trying to spend public money most wisely. A
consequence of that, frequently, will be the
kind of attack that was contained in Dafydd
Wigley’s question: that far more people wait
for longer periods in Wales than in England.
That is because we have chosen to spend the
money differently by treating people who are
more seriously ill earlier. That means that
there is a tail of long waiting which is
unfortunately difficult to combat. It is difficult to deflect the criticism because those
waiting long periods are also in pain. There
needs to be a ‘back stop’ for those waiting a
long time, even though they are not as
seriously ill as those who get treated earlier
and better in Wales than in England because
our priorities are different.
No. I have not had
discussions with the Foreign Secretary
concerning this matter, but it is a priority for
me for the Assembly’s second year.
Under the terms of the Concordat on Coordination of EU Policy Issues, the Assembly
can co-operate with the relevant Whitehall
departments to send officials to working
groups as part of the United Kingdom
delegation. This is a principle and so there is
no need to discuss this principle with the
Foreign Secretary. It is important, however,
that we have a stronger representation
because this only happened once in our first
year. It is a priority for me to work on this
matter in the Assembly’s second year.
I accept that. However,
we do not want to artificially seek
opportunities to get representation on
delegations from this country to the Council of Ministers. What is important is what your
priority is at the time. In the Assembly’s first
year, priority has been given to the structural
funds. Our officials have been working very
hard in Brussels, as part of delegations and so
on. However, that is not the same as having
representation on the Council of Ministers or
as your officials being able to represent you
on the working groups. Therefore, that is also
a priority.
However, it is reasonable that we have placed
so much emphasis on the structural funds
during our first year. That is what the people
of Wales expected us to do.
That is an example of
Nick’s somewhat narrow-minded, knee-jerk
view of life. There are people with similar
roles to mine. You will recall Bob Carr, who
addressed this Assembly on behalf of the
Parliament of New South Wales. He also
holds other posts. As well as being Premier
of New South Wales, he is its Minister for the
Arts and its Minister for Citizenship. Nick
may also recall that William Ewart Gladstone
was Chancellor of the Exchequer as well as
Prime Minister of this country for some 11
years. I agree that conditions were different
then, but relative to what my predecessor
Alun Michael did, I have divested myself of
many of the duties that Alun took on in order
to give myself time to carry out the economic
development role. Co-ordinating these two
roles has not posed problems either for
myself or for those involved in economic
development.
Although I have not
discussed that matter with the Secretary of
State for Foreign and Commonwealth
Affairs, it is true that areas with a high
dependency on heavy industry,
manufacturing industry, agriculture and so
on, tend to be discomfited by turbulence such
as that we have seen in the four years since
1996, when the pound started to shoot up
against the deutschmark and then the euro.
That happened under the previous
administration initially and has continued
under this one, with a particularly difficult
twist of the screw since January. It
undoubtedly poses great difficulties for
farmers, steel exporters, car exporters and
producers of components for the car industry.
The west Midlands and Wales are probably
the parts of the United Kingdom most
affected by that. It is not a secret that we have
indicated those views strongly.
However, this is a devolved matter. It is not
devolved to us, but to the Bank of England’s
Monetary Policy Committee. As far as I
know, Mick Bates’s party has endorsed that
policy. How, therefore, the Bank of
England’s Monetary Policy Committee sets
interests rates and what impact that has on
market sentiment for the euro and the pound
is beyond even the Nobel prize-winning
intellects that we have in plenty in this
Assembly. However, we still cannot work out
what needs to be done to strengthen the euro
or to bring down the pound.
Shortly after I became
First Secretary I talked to David Blunkett
about this. He made it clear that as far as he
was concerned this—that is, all aspects of
teachers’ pay—was a matter reserved in toto
to central Government. He also made the
point that performance-related pay should not
be regarded as examination-linked pay
because only about 5 per cent of the
determination of performance-related pay is
linked to examination performance. There are so many school years in which there are no
examinations and there are many other
factors involved. Only 5 per cent of it is
linked to examinations; the remaining 95 per
cent has nothing to do with them. This
simplistic view that performance-related pay
is linked to how well your kids have done in
exams is wide off the mark, because 95 per
cent of it is not examination related.
I am not sure what it
shows. It shows that one or two teachers’
unions want pay and conditions to be settled
centrally, as a matter for the Department for
Education and Employment, but that the one
aspect of the policy which they do not like
should be devolved. I am not sure that you
can do that logically. Either it is all
devolved—which would involve us
employing at least 100 additional civil
servants to negotiate pay and conditions, and
I am not sure if that is what Pauline wants—
or you must accept that the question is for
central Government to determine. You cannot
have the National Union of Teachers or other
bodies saying, ‘Well, yes we accept that pay
and conditions are a central matter, but we do
not like this one aspect, therefore that ought
to be devolved.’ It is one thing or the other.
Either is it reserved or is it devolved to us. If
it is devolved to us, we must pay for an
additional 100 civil servants to determine pay
and conditions on a Wales level, as they do in
Northern Ireland. I am not sure whether or
not Pauline wants that. I am not sure if the
people of Rhondda Cynon Taff want that.
The important point is that only 5 per cent of
pay is related to examination performance.
Therefore, payment by results, in the sense of
examination results, is a minuscule
component and not the main part, as is
sometimes believed.
This decision was
carefully considered on the basis that where
there is a shortage, a premium is paid to solve
the problem and it is done for that purpose.
You do not pretend that there is a shortage
where there is not, as with the recruitment of
primary school teachers, and pay a premium
to solve a shortage that does not exist.
Resources should be concentrated on solving
a recruitment problem where it exists. There
is a recruitment problem in secondary school
teaching, especially in certain areas of
teaching. That is why the premium was
applied to the shortage areas. What is the
point of throwing money at a non-existent
problem? This is a new version of old
Conservatism coming from the lips of David
Davies.
Jenny uses the word
‘effectively’ in an interesting way to change
the meaning of her question. An issue either
falls into the category of pay and conditions
or it does not. She accepts that this is not
about pay and conditions; it is about a
training premium. By using the word
‘effectively’, she is saying, ‘Well, it is sort of
pay and conditions, is it not?’ Of course, it is
not. She knows and I know that it is not.
Everybody knows that it is not. This is about
a training premium to help recruit people to
areas of shortage in our teacher training
colleges and education departments that run
postgraduate certificate of education courses
in universities. We have applied the premium
where there is a shortage. We have not
applied it in the same way as in England.
That is what devolution is all about.
 I have not discussed
this with the Secretary of State for Wales.
However, I believe that Elin and I are both
pleased that the Foreign Office announced on
2 March that the United Kingdom has signed
the charter. The charter has not been ratified
yet, but that will happen later this year. Tom
Middlehurst has sent a detailed paper to the
relevant bodies on how the charter will be
effective for the Welsh language, and the
paper was also sent to every member of the
Post-16 Education and Training Committee
on 12 April.
 Elin’s last question is a
matter for the Business Secretary. If there has
been a lack of publicity regarding the signing
and ratification of the charter, it is not
because we did not seek publicity. Tom made
a press statement on 2 March and there was a
written answer before Parliament on the same
day. There was also a statement before the
Scottish Parliament when a debate on Scots
Gaelic was held there on the same day. We
have been trying hard to get more publicity
for this important step.
The original decision was made during the
European Summit in Cardiff during the
summer of 1998, following pressure by the
then Secretary of State for Wales, Ron
Davies. We are all grateful to him for his key
role in ensuring that the UK Government was
willing to sign the charter. We are trying hard
to get publicity, but if you do not get a
response from the press, you cannot do
anything.
 I am glad to hear Glyn
Davies’s view on this matter. The Business
Secretary can discuss this matter in the
Business Committee with the representatives
of the other parties, and the Tory Party
representative will surely have heard Glyn’s
comments. If the Conservative group is
united on the matter, its representative will
raise his hand for having a debate before the
Assembly. I do not have an objection to
having a full debate on the future of the
Welsh language.
On ratifying the charter, we understand that
the UK Government will tell the European
Council that 52 paragraphs of the third part of
the charter will be effective for the Welsh
language. That is much higher than the
minimum of 35 paragraphs, which means that you can put your name to the charter. The
UK can subscribe to this number of
paragraphs because of the number of
measures that are already effective as far as
the Welsh language is concerned.
I cannot answer
directly on such a detailed point. The Catalan
Government, the former Welsh Office and
now the Assembly are probably ahead of any
other government in the European
Community in promoting their minority
language, if you want to call it that—Catalan
and Welsh. The National Assembly for
Wales and the Catalan Government give an
example to other parts of Europe where there
are minority languages. Mike raised the issue
of spending European money. There is not a
total exclusion on the use of some of the
structural funds on the development of the
Welsh language in certain economic contexts.
Everybody recognises that culture has an
impact on jobs and that culture, language,
jobs, brand image, the development of
tourism and training courses, which could
involve the Welsh language in one way or
another, could be funded by structural funds.
This will not be in a mainstream sense, but in
a fairly minor way.
I
did not meet Lord Rogers before deciding to
put the scheme on hold pending a review of
the project. However, I met the scheme
architect, Ivan Harbour, who was available to
present the outline scheme to the policy
steering group on Wednesday 16 February. I
met Lord Rogers and the scheme architect in
Gwydr House on 1 June, because I
accidentally bumped into Lord Rogers at the
Hay-on-Wye festival and he requested a
meeting
These matters will be
revealed at the proper time. You know, Glyn,
that a debate has been scheduled for 21 June,
for which the motion will be tabled
tomorrow. You will then realise that all 60
Assembly Members will be able to make a
decision with full information.
I did not follow the
first part of the question. Perhaps Brian did
not follow it either. I do not want him to
repeat it. I heard the words but I did not
follow the significance behind them. It might
have gone down better in Australia. I regard
access for people with disabilities as an
important issue, as do other Assembly
Members I am sure.
There are four parties
in the Assemblyóor, considering Nickís
party, four and a bit partiesówhich have to
make their own decisions on party discipline
on every motion. Decisions on whipping
matters will be made by the business
managers who have met to discuss the
motion for next week. It is for each party to
make decisions on whipping matters at the
appropriate time and to discuss with their
groups at the appropriate time.
I have had no
discussions with the European Commission.
The Department of the Environment,
Transport and the Regions represents UK
interests on this matter and on all matters
related to negotiations on waste shipment
policy within the EU.
I support the view that
was expressed strongly at the Environment,
Planning and Transport Committee meeting
and that Committeeís wish to see imports of
waste to Wales for disposal banned. Those
views will be presented to the DETR as part
of the consultation process.
 If I could, I would
assure you that nobody will break the law
over the next 25 years, on this or any other
matter. However, I cannot provide that kind
of assurance. I would be fooling the
Assembly and myself if I did so. Firms
should remain within the law. The more
sensitive the industrial process in which they
are engaged, the more careful of their
reputation they must be. If they fall foul of
the law and lose the publicís confidence,
they suffer years of argy-bargy, when the
local neighbourhood asks for them to be
closed. If they stayed within the law, they
might not cause such agitation in the
neighbourhood in which they are located.
On Williamís previous point: some firms
have been involved in what the people of
Pontypool and New Inn believe is becoming
a kind of dustbin. That is, people in areas
with perhaps lower unemployment in
Germany or Holland say that they do not
want an incineration or waste treatment
facility near them, so it should be sent to
Pontypool. That creates a strong sense of
grievance among the people of New Inn and
Pontypool, who ask why should they be the
dustbin of Europe. If firms have a right to
operate and do so within their license, and if
they have technical mastery of their subject
and deal with waste from Wales or within a
reasonable radius of Wales, it does not create
half the agitation that existed in New Inn for
a long time. The people of that area felt that
they were the dustbin of Europe and that they
were tolerating environmental conditions that
people in Germany or Holland, from where
some of the waste came, would not.
 I agree with that. As
far as we are aware, we are the only
legislative body in the world that has an
overall duty of sustainable development. I do
not know how you translate that overarching
duty into an obligation to treat your own
waste but not somebody elseís and, likewise,
not to export your waste but to treat it within
your own area. We must work on that. I
believe that the broad thrust of Richardís
comments is true. That is, that we could
define a radius around Wales and say that we
will deal with our waste rather than export it,
because that is important for sustainability,
but that we do not want to deal with other
countriesí waste. However, I would not like
to say that that is a hard and fast rule in every case
Yes. However, the
issue is the planning of waste or treating it. If
we were starting with a clean sheet of paper
today, the broad thrust of sustainable
development is that we have an obligation to
treat the waste within Wales or near Wales to
a reasonable and moderate degree. If the
question implies that we should also treat
imported waste, perhaps we should look at
specialist cases such as third world countries
that clearly do not have the technology. I do
not know. I am not giving a commitment
either way. I can see a case if we alone have
the technology, which is what William
Graham said. One might want to look at that.
If we had an obligation to treat imported
waste from countries all over the world that
did not want to treat the waste themselves, I
do not think that those countries would be
playing fair. I would not want another
country to exploit the fact that we have a
duty in our overarching framework of
sustainable development. They should not
regard us as the dustbin, which they can
conveniently use rather than build their own
waste incineration facilities.
Yes. The generation of
any ultra toxin such as dioxins,
dibenzofurans and other chemicals at the rate
of one per billion is an important matter. It
applies to crematoria, waste incineration
facilities that will generate electricity in the future and toxic waste incineration plants
such as New Inn. If you burn at a temperature
above 1200 degrees celsius, you destroy the
dioxins. If the temperature drops below that,
you generate dioxins. It is a huge problem
because somebody has to continuously check
that the furnace temperature is above the
temperature levels, which are very high and
actively destroy the dioxins that can have an
ultra toxic effect. However, dioxins are not
limited to toxic waste incineration plants.
They are emitted from most crematoria
where chlorine and other chemical
compounds are incinerated. The control of
the temperature facilities, the quality of the
technicians and the sense of duty of the
owners of these places are all important
factors, whether they are municipal as in
crematoria or whether they are private
industrial, as in the case of New Inn. They
must always be conscious of their duty to
destroy the dioxins by keeping the
temperature above the high levels that are
required to incinerate fully and dispose of all
the ultra toxins.
My colleagues and I
meet DETR Ministers regularly, which is
consistent with the provisions of the
concordat that was signed and returned to
John Prescott on 27 March this year. It calls
for regular dialogue on matters of common
interest.
 I am grateful to David
for the question. I was not aware of any
dispute with the DETR. Now that he has
brought it to my attention, I will raise the
matter with the DETR because the almost
100 mile long navigation rights on the river
Wye are a unique facility for multi-useófor
tourists, fishermen, canoeists and all kinds of
people who use the river. As I recall, though
not from my own childhood, the navigation
rights on the river Wye to Glasbury or Hayon-Wye were established during the
Napoleonic wars because the aristocracy
could no longer go on the grand tour and
therefore needed other activities. The
navigation rights on the Wye go back to that
period. It is of great benefit to the tourist
industry in the river Wye areaóin
Herefordshire, Monmouthshire and
Gloucestershire. We should ensure that those
navigation rights are not infringed so that
canoeists, boat users or fishermen can
partake in these activities. It is a great tourist
generating facility. I will take a personal
interest in ensuring that this problem is
solved.
Your question,
Dafydd, stretches the original questionís
elastic to the limits allowed in this Chamber.
However, there is a difference between Plaid
Cymru and the Labour Party. We are keen to
see the devolution process settling down, but,
from his question, I get the impression that
Dafydd and his troops are keen on seeing the
opposite happen. The question of
establishing a working group to consider
whether things can be improved in the
Assembly is an important one. However,
there are two paths that could be followed.
Should a working group be established to
look again at the whole question of
devolution and the Government of Wales Act
1998, or to look at holding debates that
would be more interesting for people within
and outside the Assembly and to make
questions to myself and to other members of
the Cabinet more relevant and timely? As
long as we have understanding on the kind of
working group to be established, we can
continue with the improvements at any time.
t Secretary
 I do not know whether
John Prescott is anybodyís bogeyman,
although I understand that he is to some
Tories. However, that is a different matter.
To clarify, are you asking whether the
application has been copied through to the
Assembly for us to make a decision, or
whether it has been copied through to us as a
matter of courtesy? From the instant response
of the Cabinet members with a direct interest
in this and who are present, I get the
impression that the Cabinet is not aware of
this letter. I am happy to make a statement
tomorrow, or as soon as I have the full
information. I am unclear whether the DETR
is within its rights not to inform us of this,
whether it should have informed us, and
whether it should have done so as a matter of
courtesy, not of obligation. I have not seen
the letter or its contents. I give you a full
undertaking, if there is any question of
dealings that fail to show respect for the
natural interest of the Assembly in this
matter, it will be drawn to the attention of the
appropriate quarters. I am happy to consider
making a statement, and will not hold back
from doing so tomorrow for fear of causing
any bogeyman to jitter anywhere else in the
UK Government machinery at whatever
level.
As I stated in my
written answer to your oral question on 23
May, the Assembly now enjoys a range of
mechanisms to promote cross-cutting policy
making. Most recently, we added to this by
making the major themes, namely, equality
of opportunity, sustainable development and
social deprivation and partnership, the
starting points of the budget planning round.
During the next months, we will bring before
the Assembly the final proposals for the
unique Assembly schemes in these areas.
That will give the Assembly a set of
responsibilities and structures that will make
it a world leader.
I am not sure that we
need another Committee to deal with that.
When you try to mainstream an issue, it is
difficult to know whether you need a
separate Committee to deal with that or
whether it is the obligation of every
Committee to do so. I would be inclined
towards the second view but I am happy to
receive representation on the first view of
having a Committee.
It is difficult to know how many staff you
need. It depends on the volume of work that
is generated by the equality of opportunity
unit. If there were 12 members of staff, you
might have said that there should be 24 or if
there are four, there should be eight members
of staff. I do not think that it indicates a lack
of commitment to that theme. The obligation
must flow through us as politicians. The
administration already ensures that
commitments to sustainable development, the
voluntary sector and equality of opportunity permeate what we do.
I accept Alun Cairnsís
expertise on matters that could be described
as being ëbotchedíóI am sure that he sees
that every time he looks in a mirror.
However, it seems extraordinary to write off
the first year of Objective 1 when we are in
the first month of making expenditures on the
fast track scheme to which he refers. If he
has not worked out that a year comprises 12
months and not six, then his education was
lacking. The rationing of fast track projects
by one per area has not yet been determined.
That will go before the programme
monitoring committee next week and such
luminaries as Phil Williams and me will
discuss that along with representatives of all
of the partnerships. No decision has been
taken on that. It is a proposal, and we will
reject, amend or approve it.
European social fund
money is currently coming to an end,
therefore we must wait before we can obtain
new social fund follow-on money. I hope that
we can soon say something to address the
gap in voluntary sector funding in the
training project area that is covered by ESF.
The Secretary for Local Government and
Housing and the Finance Secretary are
addressing that issue at the moment. It has
been true for decades that voluntary sector
funding has been for short periods and that
projects get withdrawal pains at the end of
that funding, when they either become
mainstreamed and covered by the local
authority, the Assembly, or by money from
elsewhere. It is an almost insoluble problem.
People get short-term funding, help to get a
project up and running, then, with a few
months to go, they rarely have the ability to
mainstream the project. Good and groundbreaking projects sometimes bite the dust.
That is sad, but it happens. Either we decide
that we should never have ground-breaking
work done on the basis of three-year or twoyear projects, in case the withdrawal of funds
in two or three yearsí time causes a problem,
or we accept that this problem will
sometimes occur. You cannot have
continuity of funding and new funding for
innovation, when you are not certain whether
there will be continuity at the end of the
period.
Yr ydym yn cymryd
cyfle cyfartal o ddifrif ac yn codiír mater
gydaín cydweithwyr mewn adrannau eraill ac
yn y Llywodraeth ganolog bob tro y boín
berthnasol.
That question goes to
the heart of the principle of devolution. If
you have devolution, then you will have
decisions that are not 100 per cent consistent
with Londonís decisions and vice versa. If
you have devolution, you cannot have 100
per cent consistency all the time and on every
aspect and detail of expenditure schemes.
We have introduced the bonusóëthe golden
helloíóas it is called, differently. We pay
the same amount of money but in a different
way. We pay the last £2,000 in subjects
where there is no shortage of candidates or
teachers, after the first probationary year as a
teacher. In England, the money is paid
beforehand. If you believe in devolution, you
must accept that, sometimes, there will be
inconsistency. You could say that the
competition between England and Wales for
students is affected as a result. However, that
is what devolution is.
 Is Jenny talking about
the last year of training, or the year of post
graduate certificate of education training or
initial teaching trainingóor teacher training
as it used to be knownóas being the period
for the training wage? Or is she saying that
the probation year is the period for the
training wage? If she means the first year as a
teacher, then clearly teachers in Wales are
£2,000 better off. If she means the actual ITT
year, then they are £2,000 worse off. We
have taken a decision that is more sensible
than Englandís and is better value for money.
However, it does have side effects. Those
side effects are not always wonderful, but
they are the inevitable consequences of
devolution. Is she saying that we should not
pay any ëgolden hellosí or that no payments
should be made during the probation year or
that no payment should be made that is
different from that in England during the
training year? Anybody who is doing ITT,
PGCE, TTóor whatever it has been called
over the past 30 or 40 years since I was in
collegeóhas always been regarded as a
student.
The Secretary of State
for Wales and I meet regularly and we have
discussed issues such as the assisted areas
review. That is one of the most important
current areas of UK Government activity in
terms of its potential impact on Wales and
that has been raised in our frequent meetings.
I have recently written to Stephen Byers at
the Department of Trade and Industry
inviting him to consider possible changes to
the ward boundaries falling within the
assisted area part of Flintshire.
 I have frequently read
allegations in north Wales newspapers about
small allocations of WDA or Business
Connect funding to north Wales. Most of
these are baseless. I will look into the issue
and, regardless of whether or not it is correct,
I will give you the full facts and figures on
Business Connect and WDA expenditure in
north Wales as a proportion of the whole of
Wales. I hope that it will put the record
straight.
 I am sure, Janet, that
you are aware of the position. We have a
published draft map that does not include
areas of Wrexham. The local authorities and
the Assembly have attempted to include
Wrexham or parts of Wrexham, including the
Brymbo area. We have not yet heard the final
outcome from Stephen Byers or the
European Commission.
You refer to more than the issue of the assisted areas map. Areas that
are not covered by that map may well receive
continuation funding, because they were
previously included. Furthermore, other
schemes will be run from Europe for which
excluded areas can apply, such as the
URBAN programme. There are other
schemes that relate to urban land
regeneration, which could cover the Brymbo
proposed regeneration. We have done much
work in trying to successfully regenerate the
Brymbo site. It is a complex site, because of
its difficult geography and multiplicity of
uses. There is a relatively modest business
park proposal of some 25 acresóif I recalló
and a much larger amenity and housing area
in the former steelworks site. It is a difficult
site, but we continue to work hard to find the
best method of achieving urban regeneration
on it.
We do not know the
final outcome of this issue yet, so I do not
think that Christine should make assumptions
about that until the European Commission
has confirmed or amended the draft map,
which is in the public domain. When I hear
from the Commission, the Assembly will be
the first to know. I will make a statement as
soon as possible.
If the worst case scenario occurs, there are
other ways of achieving the continuation of
the fragile relative degree of prosperity of the
former county of Clwyd compared with
Gwynedd, let us say. These methods include
investing in technology and encouraging
firms in the Wrexham and Flintshire area to
take advantage of the Wales innovation fund
and other unlimited funds which can be spent
anywhere in Wales and can convert a small
company into a reasonable sized high tech
company with 50 to 100 employees in five
yearsí time. There are many other ways of
trying to preserve prosperity and keep
unemployment there as low as it is today and
to stop it rising to the level it was 10 or 15
years ago.
I would like to make a
statement on the First Line Mobile
Communications issue. This is the largest
loss of jobs since the Assemblyís inception
last year. First Lineís sudden closure
following its rapid expansion was an
extraordinary event that would never have
happened in Wales or anywhere else 10 years
ago. This is perhaps the best illustration to
date of what is sometimes known as the new
economy. Ten years ago, firms did not grow
that fast and they did not collapse that fast
First Line has a short history. It started from
nothing in Swansea some two years ago,
creating 2,000 jobs at its peak, and it
collapsed before its second birthday. This is
an extraordinary by-product of the speed of
expansion of the mobile phone industry,
which, if handled properly, can be a major
engine of growth. It can also result in the
kind of instability that we have seen with
First Line Mobileís rocket-like explosion
into the upper atmosphere of Welsh job
creation and its disappearance off the Welsh
map almost as suddenly as it arrived. The
company started in Swansea in the insurance
business and then moved into selling mobile
phones. It grew rapidly to occupy substantial
rented premises in Swansea, creating some
1,200 jobs in Swansea at its peak, followed
by expansion to Cardiff, creating an
additional 800 jobs. Now, there are no jobs.
This rapid expansion was achieved without
public sector funding
The firmís sudden insolvency was a surprise
to us. The usual pattern of events of company
insolvency involves creditors trying to secure
court judgments against the firm. In this case,
there was no such process. The firm simply
collapsed. There have been some bad reports
about the firmís trading practices, but today
is not the appropriate time to comment on
those. The firm had a policy, which was
progressive in some ways but not in others,
of employing people who might be regarded
by other employers as unemployable in terms
of previous work recordóthe long-term
unemployed, for example. Even though they
are now unemployed again, those people
have had work experience and training in the
call centre industry, albeit on the cold call
side, which is perhaps the lowest form of life
in the call centre industry. At least they have
valuable experience to show other
employers.
A total of 1,600 jobs, as of the last date of
trading of First Line Mobile, have been lost.
That has placed ex-employees in difficulties
because some of them may never see their
wages. Two things are important in these
circumstances. The Employment Service
should spring into action to take peopleís
claims for benefit so that at least they have
some cash to cover their immediate needs.
The Employment Service and the training
and enterprise councils for south-west and
south-east Wales should try to get people
into jobs rapidly. I am glad that these needs
are being met rapidly
Although the firm was unwilling to assist in
providing information about employees in
order to assess where the impact of the
redundancies would hit, within an hour of
notification, the Employment Serviceís rapid
response team was working with the district
managers in Cardiff and Swansea, and with
the Benefits Agency, to handle enquiries and
Jobseekers Allowance claims. Flyers were
handed to the employees on 7 June to inform
them of the telephone number of the local job
centre and of Employment Service Direct,
which is also a call centre. Each district
allocated dedicated telephone lines to the
employees to give advice on making claims.
Job centres were open until 8 p.m. on Thursday and Friday and until 5 p.m. on
Saturday. Employees will be allowed early
access to Employment Service programme
provision.
West Wales TEC has written to the
Assembly to request that this be treated as a
ësignificant redundancyí, thereby enabling
immediate access to Assembly-funded
programmes delivered through the TECs.
This has been accepted and we understand
that the TEC is now preparing proposals. A
similar application is expected from Southeast Wales TEC.
Although horrendous numbers of people are
being made redundant at once, their
prospects do not look too bad. It is, perhaps,
fortunate that this redundancy has not taken
place in the Valleys, in north Wales or rural
west Wales, but in Cardiff and Swansea
where the call-centre industry has expanded
rapidly in the last two years and they are
already experiencing recruitment difficulties.
In the light of this, the Employment Service
arranged jobs fairs in Swansea and Cardiff
on Saturday. Over 1,500 people attended, 90
per cent of these were from First Line
Mobile. At the Swansea jobs fair 13
employers were represented, and 15 in
Cardiff. Altogether well over 1,500
vacancies were on offer and 1,750 job
applications were made. The Assembly
should congratulate the Employment Service
on the speed and effectiveness of its
response. I understand that you, Jenny,
attended the two jobs fairs that were held in
Cardiff and that you were fairly impressed by
the service that was offered at such short
notice.
These rapid expansions and sudden failures
are likely to be a continuing feature of an
increasingly dynamic and rapidly changing
economy. Nothing better illustrates the need
for all employees to take their careers into
their own hands and look to improve their
skills throughout their working lives. The
days of the job for life are over and nothing illustrates that better than what happened to
First Line Mobile and its unfortunate
employees. People are more likely to find job
security in being flexible and adaptable
rather than by working for one employer. In
that way they are able to take advantage of
the new jobs that are continuously becoming
available. Helping people to improve their
skills is one of the main components of our
economic development strategy. Last weekís
tragic news is one of the reasons for this.
 I am grateful for those
words, Jenny. They confirm the impressions
that officials had pulled out all the stops to
try to provide a service because they knew it
was worth doing. The call-centre industry is
expanding. In Wales, in general the callcentre industry has a good name. It is fair to
say that perhaps this firm never had a good
name. However, after working for two years
or only a year with that company people are
more eligible to get jobs with a more
reputable employer in the field such as
Admiral, NTL or One 2 One. They are not
the only firms but I mentioned them because
they have big bases in Cardiff and Swansea
and are always on the lookout for good staff
or staff that have had a reasonable amount of
training.
It is a matter for the insolvency service of the
companies division of the Department of
Trade and Industry and not the Assembly
whether the company broke the law by
trading while insolvent. There is a well-laid
down procedure and all the directors stand to
lose their ability to act as directors if they are
found by the companies division of DTI to
have breached companies regulations by
doing that. I cannot comment on the question
of recruiting employees right up until the last
minute. That will emerge in the wash of the
almost automatic investigation that occurs
after an insolvency of this kind into whether
they traded while insolvent.
On the issue of early warnings in other
respects, you were right, Jenny, to say that
employees may have been aware that things
were going wrong and that directors had
resigned. However, only the public or
officialdom usually gets to know if there are
strings of court judgments by creditors
because the creditors have not been paid and
they take the company to court by saying that
it owes them this money and want a
judgment against it. Normally, you get that
kind of warning sign. Secondly, you usually
get a longer winding down procedure while
the company continues trading. In this case,
the company collapsed virtually overnight
because it had no assets or rented equipment
or buildings. There was no sunset period: it
went from day to night in the space of 24
hours. I hope that the Assembly gets the drift
of what I mean.
On the issue of unpaid wages, unpaid
entitlement to holiday pay and maternity pay,
Jenny is right. I am not saying that they are at
the back of the queue but they are behind the
Inland Revenue, VAT and official sources.
They stand in line with other commercial
creditors. You could say that we should rewrite the laws but we cannot do that: it is
unfortunately not a matter for the National
Assembly for Wales. It is difficult for
individuals who miss out on benefits because
they are on the wrong side of the line or are
ex self-employed. The Assembly cannot do
anything other than seek to get people jobs
but if they are 28 weeks pregnant that is not a
realistic prospect.
We must be clear that the call industry is not
all like First Line Mobile. It was a bottomfeeder in this industry. The other call centre
industries about which we have spoken in the
Assemblyóthat have arisen from within
Wales or have been inward investorsóare
different. If this firm had been an inward
investor, I doubt whether it would have had a
lot of regional selective assistance. It is a free
country and firms can establish within the
region without the benefit of RSA. This firm
asked at one time for RSA but did not pursue
the interest because it wanted to move quickly, did not see a problem and saw
everything going in this rocket-like upward
direction.
The call-centre industry is thriving. One good
thing about this is that it is a firm that has
collapsed in an industry that is expanding.
People who have had work experience from
working for First Line Mobileóhowever
difficult an experience that may have been,
especially during the last few daysóhave a
better chance of working with more stable
employers in the same expanding industry.
I cannot do that today,
but I am happy to give Phil and the Assembly
an undertaking that officials will put the two
gross tables together to give us the net
picture as soon as possible. I do not know
whether it can be done by tomorrow, but it
will be done as soon as is practicable
Although I say that we will have a net
picture, that may not be so. We will have two
tables of gross losses and gains added up.
However, the net picture is what happens in
the unemployment tables or the tables of
people in employment. In general, over the
past 12 months, the employment situation has
improved reasonably well, although not by
much and not as well as in England. We have
gained jobs and reduced unemployment.
However, the gap between England and us
has undoubtedly increased in the last 12
months. That is to be expected when there is
a high pound, when financial services, which
we do not have, are doing well and when
manufacturing, which we have, is not doing
so well. That is almost inevitable. When
there is a low pound, Wales and the West
Midlands do well and south-east England
does badly. When the value of the pound is
up, south-east England does well and Wales
and the West Midlands do not. There is not
much that we can do about that.
I am glad to say that, as I am sure Phil has
noticed, the pound has come down a little
from its ludicrous heights. It has fallen from 3.46 deutschmarks to the pound to 3.10
deutschmarks to the pound over the past six
weeks. I hope that sterling continues to fall
towards purchasing power parity with the
deutschmark.
I am grateful for
Nickís correction. I accept entirely what he
said. The employees are pari passu with the
Inland Revenue and the VAT. I defer to his
superior legal knowledge. However, he must
accept that that does not guarantee wages
being paid. That is a matter for the liquidator.
The GMB union, which had recruited or
attempted to recruit on a large scale
following earlier industrial relations
difficulties at First Line Mobile has been
advising members to get in touch with the
union and Grant Thornton the creditors to
ensure that their claims are laid quickly.
However, the asset base is poor and claims
may not be paid. I apologise if I mislead the
Assembly by saying that employees with
back wages stood behind VAT and the Inland
Revenue.
On the question of early warning. People in
the Swansea areaóand Val and Andrew
were aware of thisóreferred to consumer
complaints about the quality of the service
given and not to trading difficulties. We were
aware of complaints by the union about the
somewhat Victorian employment practises at
the company. However, we had not received
warningóat least not at official levelóof
trading difficulties that might have led
someone to conclude that the firm did not
have long to go. We were aware of
difficulties but not of trading difficulties.
The issue about the sector is important. The
call centre activity is one of the dominant
industries of the first decade of this new
century. Some people say that the internet
will take over. Why should someone talk to a
telephonist when everything can be done on
the screen? There may not be a use for call
centres when everybody has personal
computers and is fully internet capable.
Extremists in futureology say that there is no
future for call centres beyond 2010 to 2020.
Other people say that there will be plenty of
peopleólike myselfówho will never be
internet capable and will always deal with
call centres or, even more backward, will
walk into a bank or insurance company and
insist on seeing a clerk. Those are the three
stages. One goes from the bank counter to the
call centre to the internet. I do not know how
long the middle stage, the call centre, will
last. Some people say that it will not be more
than 10 years. It may be much longer than
that. At the moment, it is a rapidly expanding
sector. However, there are bottom feeders
and there are people selling mortgages,
insurance policies and mobile phonesóas in
this caseóthrough call centres.
There is little technology involved and not
much training. In other call centres,
employees repair aircraft jet engines 15,000
miles away and are paid £30,000 a year.
Those are top-level distance repair jobs for
qualified engineers, which we all wish we
had in call centres here. That would be great
but we know that it is not always the case.
This firm established in Wales, invested in
Wales and has now collapsed in Wales,
which is unfortunate, but it is a free country
and that cannot be stopped. Call centres that
come in from outside Wales tend to have
much higher developments in their
technological infrastructure, equipment and
training.
I am grateful for those
points, Val. It is important that we do not
stigmatise the call centre sector because of
what happened at First Line Mobile. That
would be ludicrous and damaging to the
economy, and would perhaps inhibit people
from applying for jobs with good prospects
and excellent working conditions in other
call centres, regardless of what has happened
to this one. First Line Mobile is unique in the
call-centre industry, and also in the speed
with which it has grown and collapsed. I
doubt whether any official or Assembly
Member could remember this happening in
Welsh economic recent history. I say that
with every confidence as regards the
uniqueness of peopleís experience in seeing
this company rise and fall, reaching a peak of 2,000 jobs and collapsing to nothing in two
years.
On trade union membership, this company
would have benefited greatly by fully
recognising the trade unions at an early stage.
It would have seen the value of employees
not only as numbers to hustle as many mobile
phones as possible into the market on
commission, but also in trying to develop a
stable business base. That base would be
stable in an upward direction, but not
rocketlike so that it would explode when it
reached a certain stage. Having employees in
trade unions and recognising rights for trade
unions would have been helpful to the
companyís stability. It could still be here,
rather than having collapsed into
smithereens.
Val is right to remember that the Economic
Development Committee stated that it
wanted to consider this industry from a
health and safety point of view. At that time,
we were thinking more of the optical
problems that people developed after looking
at screens for too long when the screens had
a lurid green colour. That issue was more
relevant two or three years ago. Much of the
problem has been overcome by the use of
less lurid light devices behind the screens.
Much of the health and safety concerns have
gone. We are now talking about the
instability of one firm in the industry, not the
instability of the sector. It should not be
regarded as a reason for refusing regional
selective assistance to the next wave of
inward investors who want to establish good
quality call centres in Wales. Nor should it
be used to discourage school leavers or other
people on the unemployment register, or
people leaving other employment, from
entering the call-centre industry, whether that
be with Manpower in Cleddau Bridge, in
Bangor with the 999 calls operated by BT or
with NTL, One 2 One, Hyder or any of the
half dozen or more call centres that I have
had the pleasure of announcing their arrival
in Wales over the past 12 months.