Description
A huge, blue, fast object in the sky. There was a cloud of smoke and it made the floor shake.
A 'tube of light' coming down from the sky. It first looked like a star moving towards the car. Left a dust cover on the car.
Three white lights accompanied by a red light. They seemed to be many miles away.
Cigar shaped object, with wings but no tail. Jade green in colour. White lights through windows. Moved in a straight line.
One oblong object. It was red in the centre and had up to fifteen lights. There was constant movement.
One, triangular shaped object. A shiny, golden colour. It was moving in a straight line and was fast.
There was a cream coloured light.
A round ball with a tail. Was like a torch with a flare. There was no movement.
One object with white and red lights.
One, large, oval, white and very bright object. The object was straight and level and was moving parallel with the car.
An object was moving in 90 degree angles. It sped up and then slowed down.
There were two identically sized crafts. Extremely bright and both an obscured shape. They oscillated in an eliptical pattern.
One round object with lights. There was one medium constant light.There was an unusual noise. It made erratic jerky movements.
One large, triangular shaped object. Black in colour. Was moving to the West.
One round object. Yellow in colour, bright and shimmering. It was moving from left to right.
One object, with one light on the front. About 450 ft up. It moved West and picked up speed.
A round, black object was travelling across the sky at speed. There appeared to be something draping from the bottom.
One large, house sized, rugby ball shaped object. Was grey and black in colour. There were lights on it, in a triangle shape.
A triangular object. Had multicoloured flashing lights. It hovered and then shot off in an Easterly direction at high speed.
A large, round object, as big as a house. It had a cluster of lights within it. It was pulsating left and right, as if on a pivot.
One object, with four lights. All yellow/orange in colour. It moved to the North, then turned to it's original position, then disappeared.
Oefnfeec ot.b  ject, that was bigger than a car. It was white and very bright. It came down the road.
One shooting star. It zig-zagged across the sky, and then it disappeared.
A small triangular shaped object. It had black wings, and was sausage shaped in the middle. It was moving very fast.
One round object, with a white light. It also had flashing/rotating blue and red lights. It moved up and down.
Three round, star sized objects, in a triangular formation. They circled around each other, and then went back to their original position. White and very bright. They were
One round shaped object. Red, orange and green in colour and bright. The object was stationary.
One object that had four lights on it. The lights were green, white, red and blue. The object was spinning in the sky.
One large, circular object. White and very bright. The object was moving backwards and forwards.
A bright, circular red light. About 3mm in diameter, relative to cockpit windscreen. Was moving in a Westerly direction.
Circular in shape with a tail and extremely bright. It moved incredibly fast in different directions across the sky.
Black, triangular shaped object, with two fins.
One object, thought to be a star, with stud like lights underneath in a circle. Was travelling North in a straight line.
Blast of orange light. In the same direction, three golden balls appeared, that were brighter and then they disappeared.
A large, black, oblong shaped object, approx. 30-40ft long. It was about 15-25ft off the ground.
One large, square-ish, very bright object. Was blue-ish with lights around it. There was a humming sound and a nasty smell.
An object, had blue lights on the top and white lights on the bottom. Was 40ft in length. About 600ft high.
A huge meccano/round type looking structure/object, with pulsing red, green and white lights. Very slow moving.
One long shaped object, with six flashing lights. They were flashing from faded to very bright. They were moving from North to South.
One light, golden in appearance, larger and brighter than a planet. Was travelling from South West to the East.
No distinctive shape, but was extremely bright red. Had white and blue flashing lights. It was extremely noisy. Shot off at great speed.
One white ball of light, the size of a 5p piece at arms length. Plus, there were two smaller, faint objects in trail too.
One glowing outer ring, surrounding an oval structure with pulsating lights.
Vortex with white, red and green flashing lights. Rose straight up vertically from behind woods in the form of an arc. Smokey trail.
Four main lights formed a cross. There were bright green and orange lights in the centre. Was larger than a 747.
One huge, silver, star shaped object.
A star size, bright object. Was blue/white in colour.
A very bright, white light in the sky, moving fast.
Spheres - colours on and off in sequences.
One huge 'aura' was seen, was tapered to one end, like a pen. Was multicoloured and shimmering.
One beam of blue light that was very bright. It then turned white and then disappeared leaving a vapour trail.
One bright, white light in the shape of a circle, with a vapour trail.
There were several blue-ish, white-ish lights.
One large, dark hexagonal object with two white lights. Was humming and flew low over the witnesses house.
One very bright, white light. Very high altitude.
One flat, triangular object, (like a shield), white in colour. Coloured lights mainly round the edge of the craft. Spotlight beneath.
One large oval, with a sphere in the middle. Had bright blue, green and white lights on top of the craft. There was a humming noise.
One object, a pinprick of light changing colour between red, green and orange.
Flying saucer shape, with three square like windows, like a house. Was light - got lighter, then dimmed. Slightly tilted.
Cross shaped collection of five star like objects. Gold coloured lights.
A single blue and red object. Very bright. It made an S pattern in the sky, when finished, moved North East.
Single aircraft/object, that had rotors. It had blue, red and white strobes.
Two dark grey objects. They then looked translucent. They were manoeuvring and then disappeared into the cloud.
Flashing lights that were various colours. Shape unknown. Moving West.
One, large, round white light. Very bright. Moving from West to East.
Cardiff - Set of one red, blue and yellow lights in a straight line. Very bright. Pontypridd - one set of bright white lights in a triangle.
One capsule. Blue and silver at rear.
Circular shaped object. Too high to be a bird and too low to be a plane. Was travelling from East to West.
One object, white and very bright. Very high up and very fast.
One object, the size of a hot air balloon. Was bright, with a honeycomb of light. Was stationary and then flew off.
One metallic sphere, approximately five-six metres. Was flying erratically from South to North along the Rhymney Valley.
Disc/star shape object with coloured lights, blue and green, spinning around it. Sphere of light high in the atmosphere.
One cylindrical object. White and very bright. Was moving from left to right.
Like a medium, bright star. Made an unusual gentle ark. Then some strange squiggles from left to right. High up in the sky.
One star shaped object. Coloured lights around it - green, blue and red. Spinning.
A bright light.
One disc shaped object, bluey silver in colour. Moved in a straight line. Definitely not a star or planet.
Large, bright object.
One object, larger than normal aircraft, tubular shape. Was bright green tinged with blue. Moved downwards leaving trail behind.
UFO with a light, was hovering. A second UFO appeared. Had a large bright, white light. Also seemed to have red and green fleck on it.
A white, onion shaped object, which was glowing white, with sparks. Was moving rapidly in a straight line.
A vertical orange line near the horizon. Moved to a horizontal position. One inch at arms length.
Giant dewdrop shaped object. Had a yellow centre and a green/blue haze around the outside. Too big to be a shooting star.
A bright, Venus, pale orange object. Was moving as a bird would, in and out of formation.
One star shaped object. White and very bright. Very erratic movement.
Three objects/lights that were flickering on and off. They moved West and then moved to the South.
Comet shaped and with about a one foot long flare, four to six times bigger than a star. Moving from East to North East.
One star shaped object. Moving West.
One large white ball. It hovered and then disappeared.
One object, like a malteser when held at arms length. Spherical and very bright. Orange, red, green and white colours on it. Pulsating.
One circular, silvery white disc. Was right above the witness and then shot off.
A large fireball/meteorite/piece of debris spotted over the mountains. It seemed to be flaming, rather than glowing.
Diamond shape, with three lights. One red and two white lights changing colour.
Triangular, stacked as plates, with triangular shaped windows with lights.
Big explosion with an intense white light.
Red light. Hovered.
One large, round fireball. Very bright.
Bright light in the sky.
One large, round light. Gold, then changed to red/amber. Changing from one side to the other.
Object, roundish shape, silvery white. Was quite low down and enormously bright.
Like a shooting star, but with a burning tail. About the size of a military aircraft. It looked like it was heading towards the ground.
Object was a tri-angle shape, like an inverted ice cream cone. The object disappeared down a country lane.
It initially looked like a star. Looked like it was going to crash into the witness's house. Was a green colour, with red on the side.
One object, with a blue glow, which then turned green. It broke up and left smoke. It seemed very large.
One bright object. Looked star shaped. Rose fast in the sky and then disappeared.
Looked like a bright star. Had a pulsating red and green light. Was stationary and then moved off.
One tennis ball sized object. Was round at the front and had a triangular back. Was rainbow coloured and very bright.
One large, disc shaped object. Black in colour. It then changed to oval shape. The object was moving fast to the West.
Eight star sized objects, with lights that were red, white, blue and yellow. Six were following two.
Two large, shining golf ball like objects. They were moving in and out of the clouds.
One large, round shaped object. White and very bright. Moved fast upwards in the sky.
One triangular object with lights.
One silver object, long cylinder hanging from a parachute or balloon, drifting SE. It was very big and very high.
Three lights together, that looked like an elongated triangle. The lights were very bright.
Green, circular object, that was hovering in its position.
One large and three smaller triangular objects seen, with bright red and blue flashing lights.
One large, round, very bright green object going very fast to the East.
Six objects were seen omitting a bright, white light. They travelled at a slow, steady speed.
Round yellowish light followed by a green light. Went up vertically.
One light, the size of a football moving slowly at about 2-3000ft.
Two sightings over Cardiff docks. The objects were of different colours and were moving up and down.
White object with vivid flashing green, blue and red lights.
A large round disc, slightly smaller than the moon. Creamy white then changed green.
Strange object, silver and shaped like a dart.
Very big red light balls hovering. One red light hung smaller and then dropped out.
Two round objects with legs, which were black and spinning.
Roundish, football shaped. Flashing lights-multi coloured. The lights were on top, then moved around the object.
Orange circular object seen. Stayed stationary.
Saw an unusual object, falling from a cloud, like it was burning, and was very fast. Was viewed for five minutes.
Large black object over Rhyl.
The object was a bright light at first and then looked like a box kite. There was no sound, wings or fuselage.
Two silvery objects, they were pulling apart and moving together and they left vapour trails as they were moving.
Large flash of light which turned into a grey object descending over Cardiff bay, with trailing smoke behind it.
One object that looked like a disc, with a tail and was shiny.
Looked like an orange ball of light, like a big star in the sky and it had spiderish legs.
A number of orange lights seen in the sky.
Bright blue object, that broke into about 3/4 segments and then disappeared.
Just said saw a UFO.
Saw a thing in the sky like a white square box, travelling towards Newport.
A bright object was travelling at high speed, horizontally, West to East. The object was a matt white, which looked like marble.
The object looked like a red ball and was the size of a sixpence. It exploded and the whole sky lit up.
Said it looked like a parachute flare.
Said it looked like a parachute flare.
Just said something was seen in the sky. (Was seen sometime in February 2005).
A UFO. (Seen sometime in 2005).
A UFO. (Seen sometime in 2005).
The witness saw five to six white lights flying very fast overhead. They looked a bit like bright stars.
Witness saw bright lights dancing in the sky, on the way to Llandudno. (Seen in January 2005).
A flying saucer was seen, while looking out of the bedroom window. (Was seen in October 2005).
The object looked like a black square hanging in the sky.
The object was disc shaped, with four different colours - blue, green, white and orange. (Seen 2006 - Message taken 3 July 2006).
Ball of light that faded away, then came back again. Orange ball was near the car._x000D_Three red lights were seen moving clockwise.
Triangular shaped object. About 100ft high/large. Bright green and blue. A second_x000D_object appeared and it had pink pulsating lights.
The object looked like a brightly coloured aircraft. The object was moving quite_x000D_fast.
Two clusters of amber/orange and white lights in triangular formations. They_x000D_travelled horizontally in a North Westerly direction. They moved like a cork that_x000D_was bobbing on water.
A UFO was seen. (UFO was seen sometime in December 2007). (Message taken_x000D_3 January 2008).
An object which had all these different lights. When the lights flashed, they looked_x000D_like they were different shapes. Then both ends of the object started to flash._x000D_(Seen in Nov 2007 and message taken 3 Jan 2008).
A UFO was seen. (UFO was seen sometime in December 2007). (Message taken_x000D_3 January 2008).
The witness saw spaceships and then said that one of them abducted his dog, car_x000D_and tent when he and some friends were out camping. (Message taken 3 January_x000D_2008 and the UFO was seen sometime in 2007).
A UFO was seen. (UFO was seen sometime in December 2007). (Message taken_x000D_3 January 2008).
There was an object in the sky that looked like a glowing red ball. A strange substance like molten metal burst from it as it went overhead. It moved without sound.
A bright circle shape was seen. It moved_x000D_quickly and was quite erratic in the sky. It shot_x000D_to the left over some houses and then_x000D_disappeared.
A round, bright white object. It was moving_x000D_from SW to NE, and moved slowly and_x000D_quietly.
Two orange lights were seen. They were fast_x000D_moving. One moved to the East to Bala and_x000D_the other one climbed vertically.
Eleven objects in the sky.
An object was travelling at high speed. It_x000D_appeared to be round like a football. It was_x000D_travelling from South East to North East. It_x000D_then disappeared.
Three UFOs or something.
Three bright orange lights/objects in the sky,_x000D_about a mile away. One of the objects was_x000D_black and disc shaped. It moved quick and_x000D_was silent.
There was a continual orange, strange shapein the sky. There was a very odd light too.
An unusual sighting.
A very bright light, which had a long white tail._x000D_It then shot across the sky and the whole field_x000D_was lit up. The light then began to break up.
Bigger than a helicopter, 250 metres up,_x000D_silent, with something like a bar coming off it._x000D_30 seconds later flew off over the sea followed_x000D_closely by a helicopter
A UFO. (Message taken 10 January 2008).
Two balls of fire were hovering in the sky.They then elevated up and shot off into thedistance. (Message taken 12 May 2008).
A single object. (Message taken 28 July2008).
A UFO. (Message taken 11 August 2008).
A UFO. (Message taken 8 September 2008).
Three glowing objects. The objects weremoving towards the witness and then movedstraight up into the sky. (Message taken 14October 2008).
A UFO. (Message taken 14 October 2008).
A diamond shaped red light came towards him from the sea. Rear_x000D_end of diamond was a blue light. It was incredibly hot as it passed_x000D_overhead. No sound.
A bright orange light.
Five rather big orange things flew over the witness. He was terrified.
Object had a large light on the front and a smaller red and green_x000D_light on either side, as if on the ends of a planes wings. Base was a_x000D_perfect square and black in colour. It made a quiet humming sound.
Large ball of light. Light did not diminish. Very strange. Made no_x000D_sound. Very strange.
Strange object seen when he developed photographs he had taken.
Strange lights seen over the bay.
A single object the size of a large car. Silver with flames flickering_x000D_from the underside. Then moved up and away.
Looked like a satellite crashing or a star. It was fairly pacey and then_x000D_slowed to a halt. It moved off after 20 seconds and gathered speed._x000D_It became a dot and vanished.
Four UFOs flying beneath two aircraft. They moved much faster_x000D_than the aircraft. Greyish in colour with a dome on top and bottom._x000D_Flew over the Waterton Industrial Estate.
Two UFOs.
Looked like a Chinese lantern.
A big bright orange light. It turned white and then disappeared very_x000D_quickly. It made no noise.
Seven orange orbs that suddenly disappeared. They were on a_x000D_North-South trajectory. Witness contacted Cardiff Air Traffic Control_x000D_who had nothing on radar.
Seven bright orange lights in the sky. Silent. Travelling towards the_x000D_Wirral.
Seven bright red lights.
Three small yellow orbs travelling quite slow.
A very bright orange circular shape. Got smaller as it moved away._x000D_Moving South West to South.
A UFO.
A bright circle of fire travelling South Westerly. It was only a few_x000D_hundred feet up moving silently across the sky at 30mph and then_x000D_after four minutes, vanished.
Seemed like a rather large disc or round in appearance. It was dark_x000D_in colour but bounced sunlight off its surface. It was floating or_x000D_bobbing up and down. Other aircraft were at the same altitude and_x000D_could be heard, the object made no noise.
A bright orange light seen through the tree line. It turned and cleared_x000D_the tree line. The other side of the object appeared to be a large_x000D_rectangle shape of fire red/orange. It was silent. The object slowly_x000D_climbed in the direction of Gloucester.
A bright, reddish light travelling W to E, below cloud level. It made_x000D_no sound. It was moving in a straight line but too slow to be a_x000D_meteorite. It had no navigation type lights.
Unusual lights above Cardiff travelling silently.
Unusual lights travelling silently from West to East.
Bright light shone through the window. Saw three lights size of a_x000D_basket ball moving up/down and rotating on own axis. Seemed to_x000D_loose power after 30 seconds and vanished.
Bright orange light, definitely not a plane.
Very bright object above the sun.
Two round balls were in the sky chasing each other.
Three objects, like bright orange tennis balls stuck together flying_x000D_across the sky.
Object was similar to an egg shape and was amber in colour and_x000D_appeared to be hovering over  field's before disappearing.  Five_x000D_minutes later two objects appeared in same area, then disappeared_x000D_and reappeared over the Meni Straits.
Bright orange light, 1cm deep, joined by a second light, no sound.
Two objects seen in sky.
Two triangular orange lights, about 10 seconds apart.
Orange red sphere giving off light moved up into the clouds without_x000D_making any noise.
Orange oval UFO passing by.
Silent, off red, blood orange colour and entire sphere emitted light._x000D_No spotlights. Light remained constant and didn’t flicker. Saw for_x000D_four minutes.
No description provided.
Four lights whirling about above the nature reserve.
