25 September 2018
Our world is suffering from a bad case of “Trust Deficit Disorder”.    People are feeling troubled and insecure.   Trust is at a breaking point.  Trust in national institutions.  Trust among states. Trust in the rules-based global order.   Within countries, people are losing faith in political establishments, polarization is on the rise and populism is on the march.   Among countries, cooperation is less certain and more difficult.  Divisions in our Security Council are stark.    Trust in global governance is also fragile, as 21st-century challenges outpace 20th-century institutions and mindsets.   We have never had a true system of global governance, much less a fully democratic one.   Still, across many decades, we established solid foundations for international cooperation.    We came together as united nations to build institutions, norms and rules to advance our shared interests.   We raised standards of living for millions. We forged peace in troubled lands and – indeed – we avoided a third world war.   But none of this can be taken for granted.   Today, world order is increasingly chaotic.  Power relations are less clear.   Universal values are being eroded.   Democratic principles are under siege, and the rule of law is being undermined.    Impunity is on the rise, as leaders and states push the boundaries, both at home and in the international arena.   We face a set of paradoxes.   The world is more connected, yet societies are becoming more fragmented.   Challenges are growing outward, while many people are turning inward.   Multilateralism is under fire precisely when we need it most.   So, Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen,   It is true that we are moving in the direction of a multipolar world.    But multipolarity will not, in itself, guarantee peace or solve global problems.   A century ago, Europe was multipolar.  A balance of power was deemed sufficient to keep rivals in check.   It was not.  Without strong multilateral frameworks for European-wide cooperation and problem-solving, the result was a grievous world war.   Today, with shifts in the balance of power, the risk of confrontation may increase.   In assessing the Peloponnesian War in ancient Greece, Thucydides said, and I quote, “It was the rise of Athens and the fear that this instilled in Sparta that made war inevitable.”   This is what the political scientist Graham Allison calls the “Thucydides Trap”.   But in his book “Destined for War”, and reviewing many examples of rivalry in the past, he concluded that conflict is never inevitable.    Indeed, with leadership committed to strategic cooperation and to managing competing interests, we can avoid war and steer the world onto a safer path.   Individual leaders have the duty to advance the well-being of their people.    But it runs deeper.  Together, as guardians of the common good, we also have a duty to promote and support a reformed, reinvigorated and strengthened multilateral system.   We need commitment to a rules-based order, with the United Nations at its centre and with the different institutions and treaties that bring the Charter to life.   And we need to show the added value of international cooperation by delivering peace, defending human rights and driving economic and social progress for women and men everywhere.   That is why I am so committed to reform, and to making the United Nations more effective in responding to the needs and aspirations of “we the peoples”.   In the face of massive, existential threats to people and planet -- but equally at a time of compelling opportunities for shared prosperity -- there is no way forward but collective, common-sense action for the common good.   This is how we can rebuild trust.   Excellencies,   In my address last year, I highlighted seven challenges.  One year on, they remain sadly unresolved.    There is outrage at our inability to end the wars in Syria, Yemen and elsewhere.    The Rohingya people remain exiled, traumatized and in misery, still yearning for safety and justice.    Palestinians and Israelis are still locked in endless conflict, with the two-state solution more and more distant.   The threat of terror looms, fed by the root causes of radicalization and violent extremism.  And terrorism is ever more interlinked with international organized crime and the trafficking of people, drugs, arms and corruption.   The nuclear peril has not eased, with non-proliferation at serious risk.  Nuclear-armed States are modernizing their arsenals.  A new arms race could be triggered, and the threshold for their use lowered.   We have seen outrageous uses of chemical weapons, in full impunity despite their ban, and protections against dangerous biological weapons are weak.   Inequality is undermining faith in the social contract and is a clear obstacle to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals. Tensions over trade are on the rise.   Migrants and refugees continue to face discrimination and demagoguery in the context of clearly insufficient international cooperation.    And in this year marking the 70th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the human rights agenda is losing ground and authoritarianism is on the rise.   As the politics of pessimism spreads, we must guard against self-fulfilling prophecies.   Those who see their neighbours as dangerous may cause a threat where there was none.   Those who close their borders to regular migration only fuel the work of traffickers.   And those who ignore human rights in combatting terrorism tend to breed the very extremism they are trying to end.   It is our common duty to reverse these trends and resolve these challenges.   We need to move ahead based on facts, not fear — on reason, not illusion.    Prevention must be at the centre of all we do.    This session of the General Assembly is a real opportunity for progress.    To mention just one example, I welcome the strong show of support for my Action for Peacekeeping Initiative – which has been endorsed by 148 states and organizations.  It aims to help our missions succeed in today’s protracted and volatile contexts.   But today I want to concentrate on two epochal challenges which, since last year, have taken on surpassing urgency: climate change and the new risks associated with advances in technology.   Let me take them each in turn.   Ladies and Gentlemen,   First, the direct existential threat of climate change.    We have reached a pivotal moment.   If we do not change course in the next two years, we risk runaway climate change.   Climate change is moving faster than we are – and its speed has provoked a sonic boom SOS across our world.   According to the World Meteorological Organization, the past two decades included 18 of the warmest years since record-keeping began in 1850.   This year, for the first time, thick permanent sea ice north of Greenland began to break up.   The concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere is the highest in 3 million years – and rising.   Making matters worse, we — as a community of world leaders — are not doing enough.  We must listen to the earth’s best scientists.  We must see what is happening before our eyes.    We need greater ambition and a greater sense of urgency.    We must guarantee the implementation of the Paris Agreement.   It has immense potential to set us on the right course, but its targets -- which represent the bare minimum to avoid the worst impacts of climate change -- are far from being met.   I am concerned that recent negotiations in Bangkok towards implementation guidelines ended without sufficient progress.   The next Conference of Parties, COP24 in Poland in December, will be a key moment.  It must be a success.  As I said recently, we cannot allow Katowice to remind us of the divisions among Member States that paralyzed Copenhagen.   The good news is: technology is on our side.   Clean energy is more affordable and competitive than ever.    If we pursue the right path, climate action could add $26 trillion to the global economy by 2030.   Green economy policies could create 24 million new jobs.   More and more companies and investors are finding that green business is good business.   Far from being a fundamental threat to the economy, climate action is generating new industries, new markets, more jobs and less dependency on fossil fuels.   The real danger is not the threat to one’s economy that comes from acting. It is, instead, the risk to one’s economy by failing to act.   Governments need to be courageous and smart.   That means ending trillions of dollars in subsidies for fossil fuels.   It means establishing an adequate price for carbon.    It means stopping investments in unsustainable infrastructure that lock in bad practices for decades to come.   Our future is at stake.  Nothing is immune -- climate change affects everything – and everything can be undermined.  Keeping our planet’s warming to well below 2 degrees is essential for global prosperity and the security of nations.    That is why, next September, I will convene a Climate Summit to mobilize action and finance. We will bring together countries and cities, the real economy and real politics, business, finance and civil society, to focus on the heart of the problem.   The Summit will take place one year before countries have to enhance their national climate pledges under the Paris Agreement.   Only a significantly higher level of ambition will do – and the Summit will be an opportunity for leaders and partners to showcase their ambition.   For this to be possible, we must act today.   The world needs you to be climate champions.   Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen,   Let me now turn to new technologies and what we can do to uphold their promise but to keep their perils at bay.   And there is great promise.  Scientific progress has helped to cure deadly diseases, to feed growing populations, to drive economic growth and to connect businesses, communities, families and friends across the world.   Rapidly developing fields such as artificial intelligence, blockchain and biotechnology have the potential to turbocharge progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals.   Artificial Intelligence is connecting people across languages, and supporting doctors in making better diagnoses. Driverless vehicles will revolutionize transportation.    But there are also risks and serious dangers.   Technological advances may disrupt labour markets as traditional jobs change or disappear, even as the number of young job-seekers continues to grow.  Re-training will be needed at previously unimaginable scales.  Education must adapt, from the earliest grades.  And the very nature of work will change.  Governments may have to consider stronger social safety nets and eventually universal basic income.   At the same time, technology is being misused by terrorists and for sexual exploitation and abuse.   Organized criminal networks lurk on the dark web, profiting from encryption and near-anonymous cryptocurrency payments to traffic in people and illegal goods.   Some reports estimate that cybercrime is now putting US$1.5 trillion in the pockets of cybercriminals annually.   Malicious acts in cyberspace – such as disinformation campaigns -- are polarizing communities and diminishing trust among States.   And more and more people are getting their information from news or social media feeds that echo their views, reinforce tribalism and assure people that they are right and the other side is wrong.   The digital revolution is also being used to discriminate against women and reinforce our male-dominated culture.   Indeed, there is a deep gender gap in access to digital technologies, widening the digital divide.    We must dismantle obstacles and create opportunities for women, ensure equality and change on-line and toxic corporate cultures. The technology sector must open up and become more diverse – not least for its own benefit.   With technology outracing institutions, cooperation between countries and among stakeholders will be crucial, including Member States, the private sector, research centres, civil society and academia.    There are many mutually beneficial solutions for digital challenges. We need urgently to find the way to apply them.   At the United Nations, we are harnessing technologies in support of the Sustainable Development Goals. We are creating innovation labs, including in my office.  And in July, I established a High-Level Panel on Digital Cooperation, that met yesterday, and that is a dialogue platform for all key actors.   Excellencies,   The impacts of new technologies on warfare are a direct threat to our common responsibility to guarantee peace and security.   The weaponization of artificial intelligence is a growing concern.   The prospect of weapons that can select and attack a target on their own raises multiple alarms – and could trigger new arms races.   Diminished oversight of weapons has implications for our efforts to contain threats, to prevent escalation and to adhere to international humanitarian and human rights law.   Let’s call it as it is.  The prospect of machines with the discretion and power to take human life is morally repugnant.   Heaven forbid, any new war could very well include a massive cyberattack not only targeting military capacities, but also critical civilian infrastructure.    I am encouraged by the ten possible guiding principles elaborated in Geneva last month by the Group of Governmental Experts on Lethal Autonomous Weapons Systems.    More work on these issues, aimed at building trust between and within nations, will be needed if we are to ensure the responsible use of new technologies.   I urge you to use the United Nations as a platform to draw global attention to these crucial matters and to nurture a digital future that is safe and beneficial for all.   Excellencies,   Despite the chaos and confusion in our world, I see winds of hope blowing around the globe.    Just days ago, I witnessed the signing of a historic peace agreement between Ethiopia and Eritrea in Saudi Arabia.   Soon after, the presidents of Djibouti and Eritrea met in Jeddah to launch a peace process.    Eritrea and Somalia have established diplomatic relations.    And in the same region, in the context of a summit of the Intergovernmental Authority on Development – IGAD - the two rival leaders in South Sudan have finally signed a peace agreement.    I am hopeful that these efforts will continue to be consolidated so that the people of the Horn of Africa can finally turn the page on war and conflict.    The courageous initiative of the Singapore Summit between the leaders of the United States and the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, along with the recent meeting of the two Korean leaders in Pyongyang, offers hope for the possibility of a full and verifiable denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula in a context of regional security.   In my recent visit to Colombia, I was impressed by the peoples’ strong commitment to peace, now reaffirmed by President Duque.   In Central Asia, I personally witnessed strengthened cooperation among states after Uzbekistan went through a peaceful political transition.   Greece and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia have taken a major step towards resolving their differences.   Our peacekeeping mission in Liberia ended a decade-and-a-half of work this year following the country’s first peaceful democratic transition, adding to peacekeeping successes elsewhere in West Africa.   The approval of a compact on refugees and another on migration represents signs of hope, even if there is still a long way to go to reconcile full respect for the rights of people on the move with the legitimate interests of states.   Hundreds of millions of people have been lifted out of extreme poverty across the world over the past three decades, and we averted looming famine in the four countries impacted in the past two years.   Armenia’s young people were at the heart of that country’s peaceful political transition earlier this year – showing the potential of youth to use their voice to advance democracy.   And the drive for gender equality is gaining ground, amid a growing awareness of pervasive discrimination against women and girls, from violence, harassment and exploitation to unequal pay and exclusion from decision-making.    The United Nations must lead the way in pursuit of gender equality.  For the first time in United Nations history, there is full parity in our Senior Management Group and among Resident Coordinators leading country teams around the world. We are firmly committed to equality and empowerment everywhere.   Excellencies, Ladies and gentlemen,   As our Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, once reminded us:   “We share a common destiny.  We can master it only if we face it together.  And that, my friends, is why we have the United Nations”.   Our future rests on solidarity.   We must repair broken trust.    We must reinvigorate our multilateral project.   And we must uphold dignity for one and for all.   Thank you very much. 

19 September 2017
I am here in a spirit of gratitude and humility for the trust you have placed in me to serve the world’s peoples.   “We the peoples”, and the United Nations, face grave challenges.   Our world is in trouble.  People are hurting and angry.  They see insecurity rising, inequality growing, conflict spreading and climate changing.   The global economy is increasingly integrated, but our sense of global community may be disintegrating.   Societies are fragmented.  Political discourse is polarized.  Trust within and among countries is being driven down by those who demonize and divide.   We are a world in pieces.  We need to be a world at peace.   And I strongly believe that, together, we can build peace.  We can restore trust and create a better world for all.   I will focus today on seven threats and tests that stand in our way.    For each, the dangers are all too clear.  Yet for each, if we act as truly united nations, we can find answers.   First, the nuclear peril.   The use of nuclear weapons should be unthinkable.  Even the threat of their use can never be condoned.   But today global anxieties about nuclear weapons are at the highest level since the end of the Cold War.   The fear is not abstract.  Millions of people live under a shadow of dread cast by the provocative nuclear and missile tests of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.   Within the DPRK itself, such tests do nothing to ease the plight of those who are suffering hunger and severe violations of their human rights.   I condemn those tests unequivocally.   I call on the DPRK and all Member States to comply fully with Security Council resolutions.   Last week’s unanimous adoption of resolution 2375 tightens sanctions and sends a clear message regarding the country’s international obligations.   I appeal to the Council to maintain its unity.   Only that unity can lead to the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula and -- as the resolution recognizes -- create an opportunity for diplomatic engagement to resolve the crisis.   When tensions rise, so does the chance of miscalculation.  Fiery talk can lead to fatal misunderstandings.    The solution must be political.  This is a time for statesmanship.    We must not sleepwalk our way into war.   More broadly, all countries must show greater commitment to the universal goal of a world without nuclear weapons.  The nuclear-weapon states have a special responsibility to lead.    Today, proliferation is creating unimaginable danger, and disarmament is paralyzed.   There is an urgent need to prevent proliferation, to promote disarmament and to preserve gains made in these directions.   These goals are linked.  Progress on one will generate progress on the other.   Let me turn to the global threat of terrorism.   Nothing justifies terrorism -- no cause, no grievance.   Terrorism continues to take a rising toll of death and devastation.    It is destroying societies, destabilizing regions and diverting energy from more productive pursuits.   National and multilateral counter-terrorism efforts have indeed disrupted networks, reclaimed territory, prevented attacks and saved lives.   But we need to intensify this work.  Stronger international cooperation remains crucial against terrorism.    I am grateful to the General Assembly for approving one of my first reform initiatives: the establishment of the UN Office on Counter-Terrorism.    Next year, I intend to convene the first-ever gathering of heads of counter-terrorism agencies of Member States to forge a new International Counter-Terrorism Partnership.   But it is not enough to fight terrorists on the battlefield or to deny them funds.    We must do more to address the roots of radicalization, including real and perceived injustices and high levels of unemployment and grievance among young people.    Political, religious and community leaders have a duty to stand up against hatred and serve as models of tolerance and moderation.    Together, we need to make full use of UN instruments, and expand our efforts to support survivors.   Experience has also shown that harsh crackdowns and heavy-handed approaches are counterproductive.   As soon as we believe that violations of human rights and democratic freedoms are necessary to win the fight, we might have lost the war.   Third, unresolved conflicts and systematic violations of international humanitarian law.
We are all shocked by the dramatic escalation of sectarian tensions in Myanmar’s Rakhine State.  A vicious cycle of persecution, discrimination, radicalization and violent repression has led more than 400,000 desperate people to flee, putting regional stability at risk. 
I take note of State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi’s address today – and her intention to implement the recommendations of the Advisory Commission on Rakhine State that was chaired by Kofi Annan within the shortest time possible.  
Let me emphasize again: The authorities in Myanmar must end the military operations, allow unhindered humanitarian access and recognize the right of refugees to return in safety and dignity.  They must also address the grievances of the Rohingya, whose status has been left unresolved for far too long.     No one is winning today’s wars.   From Syria to Yemen, from South Sudan to the Sahel, Afghanistan and elsewhere, only political solutions can bring peace.   We should have no illusions.  We will not be able to eradicate terrorism if we do not resolve the conflicts that are creating the disorder within which violent extremists flourish.   Last week I announced the creation of a High-Level Advisory Board on Mediation.  Those eminent individuals will allow us to be more effective in brokering peace around the world.   The United Nations is forging closer partnerships with key regional organizations such as the African Union, the European Union, the League of Arab States and the Organization of Islamic Cooperation.   We continue to strengthen and modernize peacekeeping – protecting civilians and saving lives around the world.   And since taking office, I have sought to bring together the parties to conflict, as well as those that have influence on them.   As a meaningful example, I am particularly hopeful about tomorrow’s meeting on Libya.   Last month, I visited Israel and Palestine.  We must not let today’s stagnation in the peace process lead to tomorrow’s escalation.  We must restore the hopes of the people. The two-state solution remains the only way forward.  It must be pursued urgently.   But I must be frank: in too many cases, the warring parties believe war is the answer.    They may speak of a willingness to compromise.   But their actions too often betray a thirst for outright military victory, at any cost.   Violations of international humanitarian law are rampant, and impunity prevails.   Civilians are paying the highest price, with women and girls facing systematic violence and oppression.   I have seen in my country, and in my years at the United Nations, that it is possible to move from war to peace, and from dictatorship to democracy.  Let us push ahead with a surge in diplomacy today and a leap in conflict prevention for tomorrow.   Fourth, climate change puts our hopes in jeopardy.   Last year was the hottest ever.  The past decade has been the hottest on record.   Average global temperature keeps climbing, glaciers are receding and permafrost is declining.   Millions of people and trillions of assets are at risk from rising seas and other climate disruptions.    The number of natural disasters has quadrupled since 1970.   The United States, followed by China, India, the Philippines and Indonesia, have experienced the most disasters since 1995 – more than 1,600, or once every five days.   I stand in solidarity with the people of the Caribbean and the United States who have just suffered through Hurricane Irma, the longest-lasting Category 5 storm ever recorded. And Maria is already on its way.   We should not link any single weather event with climate change.  But scientists are clear that such extreme weather is precisely what their models predict will be the new normal of a warming world.   We have had to update our language to describe what is happening: we now talk of mega-hurricanes, superstorms and rain bombs.    It is time to get off the path of suicidal emissions.  We know enough today to act.  The science is unassailable.   I urge Governments to implement the historic Paris Agreement with ever greater ambition.   I commend those cities that are setting bold targets.   I welcome the initiatives of the thousands of private enterprises – including major oil and gas companies – that are betting on a clean, green future.   Energy markets tell us that green business is good business.   The falling cost of renewables is one of the most encouraging stories on the planet today.   So is the growing evidence that economies can grow as emissions go down.   New markets, more jobs, opportunities to generate trillions in economic output.   The facts are clear.  Solutions are staring us in the face. Leadership needs to catch up.   Fifth, rising inequality is undermining the foundations of society and the social compact.    The integration of the world’s economies, expanding trade and stunning advances in technology have brought remarkable benefits.   More people have risen out of extreme poverty than ever before.  The global middle class is also bigger than ever.  More people are living longer, healthier lives.    But the gains have not been equal.  We see gaping disparities in income, opportunity and access to the fruits of research and innovation.   Eight men hold the same wealth as half of humanity.    Whole regions, countries and communities remain far removed from the waves of progress and growth, left behind in the Rust Belts of our world.   This exclusion has a price: frustration, alienation, instability.   But we have a blueprint to change course -- to achieve fair globalization.   That plan is the 2030 Agenda.   Half our world is female.   Half our world is under 25 years of age.   We cannot meet the Sustainable Development Goals without drawing on the power of women and the enormous energy of young people.   We know how fast transformation can take place in our day and age.   We know that with global assets and wealth worth trillions, we are not suffering from a lack of funds.    Let us find the wisdom to use the tools, plans and resources already in our hands to achieve inclusive and sustainable development -- a goal in its own right but also our best form of conflict prevention.   The dark side of innovation is the sixth threat we must confront -- and it has moved from the frontier to the front door.   Technology will continue to be at the heart of shared progress.  But innovation, as essential as it is for humankind, can bring unintended consequences.   Cybersecurity threats are escalating.   Cyber war is becoming less and less a hidden reality -- and more and more able to disrupt relations among States and destroy some of the structures and systems of modern life.   Advances in cyberspace can empower people, but the dark web shows that some use this capacity to degrade and enslave.   Artificial intelligence is a game changer that can boost development and transform lives in spectacular fashion.  But it may also have a dramatic impact on labour markets and, indeed, on global security and the very fabric of societies.   Genetic engineering has gone from the pages of science fiction to the marketplace – but it has generated new and unresolved ethical dilemmas.   Unless these breakthroughs are handled responsibly, they could cause incalculable damage.   Governments and international organizations are simply not prepared for these developments.   Traditional forms of regulation simply do not apply.    It is clear that such trends and capacities demand a new generation of strategic thinking, ethical reflection and regulation.   The United Nations stands ready as a forum where Member States, civil society, businesses and the academic community can come together and discuss the way forward, for the benefit of all.   Finally, I want to talk about human mobility, which I do not perceive as a threat even if some do.  I see it as a challenge that, if properly managed, can help bring the world together.   Let us be clear: we do not only face a refugee crisis; we also face a crisis of solidarity.    Every country has the right to control its own borders.  But that must be done in a way that protects the rights of people on the move.     Instead of closed doors and open hostility, we need to re-establish the integrity of the refugee protection regime and the simple decency of human compassion.  With a truly global sharing of responsibility, the number of refugees we face can be managed.   But too many states have not risen to the moment.   I commend those countries that have shown admirable hospitality to millions of forcibly displaced people.  We need to do more to support them.   We also need to do more to face the challenges of migration.  The truth is that the majority of migrants move in a well-ordered fashion, making positive contributions to their host countries and homelands.   It is when migrants move in unregulated ways that the risks become clear – risks for states but most especially risks for migrants themselves exposed to perilous journeys.   Migration has always been with us.   Climate change, demographics, instability, growing inequalities, and aspirations for a better life, as well as unmet needs in labour markets, mean it is here to stay.    The answer is effective international cooperation in managing migration to ensure that its benefits are most widely distributed, and that the human rights of all concerned are properly protected.   From my experience, I can assure you that most people prefer to realize their aspirations at home.    We must work together; development cooperation must be oriented in such a way to make sure that they can do so.    Migration should be an option, not a necessity.    We also need a much stronger commitment of the international community to crack down on human traffickers, and to protect their victims.    But let us be clear, we will not end the tragedies on the Mediterranean, the Andaman Sea and elsewhere without creating more opportunities for regular migration. This will benefit migrants and countries alike.   I myself am a migrant, as are many of you in this room. But no one expected me to risk my life on a leaky boat or to cross a desert in the back of a truck to find employment outside my country of birth.   Safe migration cannot be limited to the global elite.   Refugees, internally displaced persons and migrants are not the problem; the problem lies in conflict, persecution and hopeless poverty.   I have been pained to see the way refugees and migrants have been stereotyped and scapegoated – and to see political figures stoke resentment in search of electoral gain.   In today’s world, all societies are becoming multicultural, multiethnic and multi-religious.    This diversity must be seen as a richness, not as a threat.  But to make diversity a success, we need to invest in social cohesion, so that all people feel that their identities are respected and that they have a stake in the community as a whole.   We need to reform our world, and I am committed to reforming the United Nations.
Together, we have embarked on a comprehensive reform effort: -- to build a UN development system to support States in bettering peoples’ lives; -- to reinforce our ability to safeguard people’s peace, security and human rights; -- and to embrace management practices that advance those goals instead of hindering them.
We have launched a new victims-centered approach to preventing sexual exploitation and abuse.
We have a roadmap to achieve gender parity at the United Nations – and we are already on our way. 
We are here to serve: to relieve the suffering of “we the peoples”; and to help fulfill their dreams.   We come from different corners of the world.   Our cultures, religions and traditions vary widely – and, I would say, wonderfully.   At times, there are competing interests among us.   At others, there is even open conflict.   That is exactly why we need the United Nations.   That is exactly why multilateralism is more important than ever.   We call ourselves the international community.    We must act as one, because only together, as united nations, can we fulfil the promise of the Charter and advance human dignity for all.   Thank you.  Shokran.  Xie Xie.  Merci.  Spasibo.  Gracias.  Obrigado.    

