2007
Congratulations on your election, Mr. President.  Welcome, all, to New York in this beautiful autumn season.
 
It is a pleasure and an honour to be with you, at this opening of the general debate of our sixty-second General Assembly.  I expect the year ahead to be among the most challenging in our history.  And I am sure that, together, we can make it one of the most successful.
 
We are off to a strong start.  During the past week, we hosted a high-level meeting of the Africa Steering Group on our Millennium Development Goals -- a clear signal of an important priority.  World leaders also met to discuss our way forward on the Middle East, Afghanistan, Darfur and Iraq.  Yesterday we concluded a highly successful conference on climate change.
 
Our goal was to galvanize our efforts, to coordinate our work under one roof -- this roof of our United Nations -- so that we fight global warming together, as one.  This, in itself, is a signal accomplishment.  It is a model of how I hope we can work together in the future.
 
Looking to the coming year, and beyond, we can foresee a daunting array of challenges to come.  They are problems that respect no borders -- that no country, big or small, rich or poor, can resolve on its own.
 
More than ever, we live in an era of collective action.  Often it seems as though everybody wants the UN to do everything.  We cannot deliver everything, of course.  But that cannot be an excuse for doing nothing.
 
Hence the theme of these remarks:  A Stronger United Nations for a Better World.
 
Our changing world needs a stronger UN.  We all understand the importance of a strong, robust, empowered Secretariat.  My vision is an administration focused on results -- efficient, directed, pragmatic and accountable, an administration representing excellence, integrity and pride in serving the global good.
 
To deliver on this vision, we must modernize ourselves.  We need an internal climate change at the UN.  We need to think freshly about how we do our work.  Our main themes should be to simplify, rationalize and delegate.
 
To deliver on the world’s high expectations for us, we need to be faster, more flexible and mobile.  We need to pay less attention to rhetoric and more attention to results -- to getting things done.
 
I place a very high priority on implementing the management reforms you have previously approved to promote greater transparency, accountability and efficiency.  I welcome the progress we have made over the past nine months in streamlining our budget processes, crafting our Capital Master Plan and putting our financial house in order.  I am especially grateful to the 102 Governments that have paid their annual budget assessments in full.
 
Together, we successfully reorganized our peacekeeping operations, affecting more than 100,000 UN field personnel in 18 multinational missions.  I plan to continue the effort by strengthening the Department of Political Affairs.  We must become more proactive in responding to crises.  Well-planned and executed preventive diplomacy can save many lives and forestall many tragedies -- a core Charter responsibility of our UN.
 
I will leave no stone unturned to end the tragedy in Darfur.  The Government of Sudan must live up to its pledge to join comprehensive peace talks and implement a ceasefire.  We must also move forward with the agreement that ended the long-running civil war between north and south and prepare for elections in 2009.
 
The crisis in Darfur grew from many causes.  Any enduring solution must address all of them -- security, politics, resources, water, humanitarian and development issues.  There, as elsewhere, we must deal with root causes of conflict, however complex and entangled.
 
Peace in the Middle East is vital to the stability of the region and the world.  We know what is required:  an end to violence, an end to occupation, the creation of a Palestinian State at peace with itself and Israel, and a comprehensive regional peace between Israel and the Arab world.  With renewed leadership from the Arab world and the United States, coupled with the efforts of Quartet Representative Tony Blair, the elements for a renewed push for peace are being brought together.
 
We also sincerely hope that the Lebanese people, through national reconciliation, will be able to restore political and social stability by electing their new President in accordance with their constitutional process.
 
Iraq has become the whole world’s problem.  With the new Security Council resolution 1770 (2007), the UN has an important role in promoting political negotiation and national reconciliation, as well as in providing humanitarian assistance to the Iraqi people.  But we recognize that the safety and security of UN staff is paramount.
 
In Afghanistan, we must work more effectively with our partners to deal with drug trafficking and the financing of terrorism.
 
We are closely following events in Myanmar.  We again urge the authorities in Myanmar to exercise utmost restraint, to engage without delay in dialogue with all the relevant parties to the national reconciliation process on the issues of concern to the people of Myanmar.  In this regard, my Special Adviser is expected to visit Myanmar very soon.
 
From my first day in office, I have stressed the importance of disarmament, as mandated most recently in the General Assembly’s support for my proposal to establish an Office of Disarmament Affairs.  We must reinvigorate our effort to stop the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and related technology, and especially to prevent such material from falling into the hands of terrorists.
 
I am encouraged by recent progress on the DPRK issue.  I sincerely hope that the forthcoming inter-Korean Summit meeting will create a historic momentum to bring peace, security and eventually a peaceful reunification of the Korean Peninsula.
 
I am confident that we will reach a negotiated solution with the Islamic Republic of Iran.  Our ultimate goal remains the complete elimination of weapons of mass destruction.  If we fail, these weapons may one day eliminate us.
 
We at the UN must take the long view, in politics as in life.  Even as we deal with the here and now, we must think about tomorrow.
 
Yesterday, I spoke about climate change as a defining issue of our time.  We all agreed.  Now is the time for action.  Let us go to Bali and make a breakthrough.
 
We also agreed that solutions to global warming cannot come at the expense of economic development -- the second pillar of the UN’s work.  Issues of development and social equity cannot take a back seat to issues of peace and security.
 
This year marks the midpoint for our Millennium Development Goals.  We have had successes.  Around the world, unprecedented numbers of people are lifting themselves out of poverty.  Yet the rising tide of globalization has not lifted all boats.
 
We see this most acutely in Africa, home to most of what one World Bank economist calls “the bottom billion” of the world’s poor.  We must pay careful attention to these nations with special needs.  We must heed the voices of the world’s poorest peoples, who too often go unheard.
 
That is why I convened the MDG Africa Steering Group earlier this month, bringing together leaders of major multilateral development organizations.  Our Millennium Goals remain achievable -- so long as we help the poorest nations break free of the traps that ensnare them.
 
Some of those traps relate to bad governance.  Others to disease and poor health care.  It is intolerable that HIV/AIDS continues as a modern-day scourge.  It is intolerable that almost 10 million children die each year before their fifth birthday, mostly from such preventable diseases as malaria.  It is a scar on the moral conscience of the world.
 
This is not to say we will do things that these countries should, and can, do for themselves.  The Asian Miracle has shown that successful development owes much to smart choices and rigorous execution.
 
For our part, we must try to make our multilateral development programmes more effective and coherent, to better integrate our efforts in health, education, agriculture and infrastructure so as to deliver better results.
 
For their part, donor nations must do more to deliver on their promises of aid, debt relief and market access.  Open, fair and non-discriminatory trading and financial systems are critical to the future of every developing country, in Africa and elsewhere.  That is why we must do our utmost to advance the Doha Development Agenda, with its emphasis on development and “aid for trade”.
 
The third pillar of the UN, human rights, is codified in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which marks its sixtieth anniversary in 2008.
 
The Human Rights Council must live up to its responsibilities as the torchbearer for human rights consistently and equitably around the world.  I will strive to translate the concept of our Responsibility to Protect from words to deeds, to ensure timely action so that populations do not face genocide, ethnic cleansing and crimes against humanity.
 
Our international tribunals continue their work, from Rwanda to Sierra Leone and, soon, Lebanon.  The age of impunity is dead.
 
Meanwhile, the UN’s brave and exceptionally committed humanitarian aid workers do their best to save lives.  They help protect civilian populations from the depredations of armed militias, children from starvation, women from shameful violence.
 
This year did not bring a natural disaster on the scale of the 2004 tsunami.  But the intensity of floods, droughts and extreme weather, perhaps made worse by climate change, have brought pain and suffering to many millions.  This, above all, is the UN’s frontline.  We stand up to help those who cannot help themselves.
 
I am humbled, often, by the scale of the challenges before us.  So much is expected of us.  Delivering on those hopes, faithfully and effectively, will require great effort and discipline.
 
Transforming the way the UN does business -- shifting our focus to emphasize results rather than bureaucratic process -- will take patience, perseverance and courage.
 
The pendulum of history is swinging in our favour.  Multilateralism is back.  An increasingly interdependent world recognizes that the challenges of tomorrow are best dealt with through the UN.  Indeed, they can only be dealt with through the UN.


2008
Mr. President,  Excellencies,  Ladies and Gentlemen:
Welcome to the opening of the general debate of the 63rd session of the General Assembly. It is customary for the Secretary-General, on this occasion, to assess the state of the world and to present our vision for the coming year. We all recognize the perils of our current passage. We face a global financial crisis. A global energy crisis. A global food crisis. Trade talks have collapsed, yet again. We have seen new outbreaks of war and violence, new rhetoric of confrontation. Climate change ever more clearly threatens our planet.
We often say that global problems demand global solutions. And yet ... Today, we also face a crisis of a different sort. Like these others, it knows no borders. It affects all nations. It complicates all other problems. I refer, here, to a challenge of global leadership.
Excellencies,
We are on the eve of a great transition. Our world has changed, more than we may realize. We see new centers of power and leadership – in Asia, Latin America and across the newly developed world. The problems we face have grown much, much more complex. In this new world, our challenges are increasingly those of collaboration rather than confrontation. Nations can no longer protect their interests, or advance the well-being of their people, without the partnership of the rest.
Yet I worry. There is, today, a danger of losing sight of this new reality. I see a danger of nations looking more inward, rather than toward a shared future. I see a danger of retreating from the progress we have made, particularly in the realm of development and more equitably sharing the fruits of global growth. This is tragic. For at this time one thing is clear. We must do more, not less.
We must do more to help our fellow human beings weather the gathering storm. Yes, global growth has raised billions of people out of poverty. However, if you are among the world's poor, you have never felt poverty so sharply. Yes, international law and justice have never been so widely embraced as on this 60th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. However, those living in nations where human rights are abused have never been so vulnerable.
Yes, most of us live in peace and security. However, we see deepening violence in many nations that can least afford it. Afghanistan. Somalia. The Democratic Republic of the Congo. Iraq. Sudan. To name just a few.
This is not right. This is not just.
We can do something about it. And with strong global leadership, we will.
Mesdames et messieurs les représentants,
Je voudrais vous parler des trois piliers du développement : les droits de l'homme, la paix, et la sécurité. Je le dis sans détour : dans le domaine du développement, la situation est grave. Au cours de l'année écoulée, nous avons suivi, avec la plus grande inquiétude, la montée en flèche des prix du carburant, des denrées alimentaires et des produits de base. Les pays riches craignent une récession, tandis que les plus pauvres n'ont plus de quoi manger. C'est pourquoi, dans deux jours, nous tiendrons une manifestation de haut niveau sur les objectifs du Millénaire pour le développement. Nous devons faire –uvre de sensibilisation partout dans le monde et mobiliser une action mondiale particulièrement axée sur l'Afrique. Comme vous le savez, les progrès sont inégaux. Toutes les promesses n'ont pas été tenues. Mais nous avons suffisamment avancé pour savoir que la réalisation des objectifs du Millénaire est à notre portée. À cette manifestation de haut niveau, je réunirai une nouvelle coalition composée des gouvernements, d'ONG, de grands patrons du secteur privé, de groupes confessionnels et de philanthropes. Nous savons que c'est une formule efficace. Elle a déjà fonctionné pour le paludisme, fléau qui tue un enfant toutes les 30 secondes.
L'an dernier, j'ai constitué un partenariat public-privé d'un type nouveau, qui travaille sur la base d'une stratégie scientifique, mobilise des fonds et est géré de façon centralisée à l'échelle mondiale. Jeudi, j'annoncerai les résultats de nouvelles recherches qui montrent que ce partenariat est un succès retentissant. Le moment approche où nous pourrons déclarer que le paludisme, un des derniers fléaux qui pèsent sur l'humanité, a été éliminé. Et à présent, nous allons appliquer ce nouveau modèle de partenariat mondial aux autres objectifs du Millénaire. Je vous demanderai d'être ambitieux et concrets. Je vous demanderai d'indiquer ce que vous comptez faire, et comment, pour nous aider à l'emporter en 2015. Et je propose que nous tenions en 2010 une réunion au sommet sur les OMD, afin de faire le point de la suite donnée à ces nouveaux engagements. Nous devons reprendre les choses en main, dès aujourd'hui. Nous devons répondre à l'appel, où que nous soyons. Nous le devons aux pauvres de la terre.
Distinguished delegates,
The United Nations is the champion of the most vulnerable. When disaster strikes, we act.We did so this year in Haiti and in other Caribbean nations hit by hurricanes. We did so in Myanmar after Cyclone Nargis. There, the challenge now is to push for political progress, including credible steps on human rights and democracy. We did so in Southeast Asia affected by severe flooding, and in the Horn of Africa afflicted by drought, where 17 million people need emergency help.Since taking office, I have called for more strenuous action in Somalia. Must we wait – and see more children die in the sand– We at the United Nations are leaders. We at the United Nations are duty-bound to do what compassion and human decency demand of us.
Ladies and gentlemen,
The global food crisis has not gone away. It may have faded from the daily headlines. But note this fact: last year at this time, rice cost $330 a ton. Today it is $730. In a single year, the food staple that feeds half of the population more than doubled in price. People who used to buy rice by the bag now do so by the handful. Those who ate two meals a day now get by on one.
The United Nations has led the world's response. Our UN High Level Task Force on the Global Food Crisis set forth solutions. We focused on getting seeds and fertilizers into the hands of small farmers. We aim to create a new “green revolution” in Africa. But the truth is, we lack new resources. The international community has not matched words with deeds.
Mesdames et Messieurs,
Nous savons que la paix et la sécurité sont assaillis de toutes parts. Dans des pays comme le Burundi et la Sierra Leone, le Liberia et le Timor Leste, les membres des opérations de maintien de la paix, qui sont plus de cent mille, aident les habitants à surmonter les conflits et à rétablir la paix. Il ne faut pas sous-estimer ce que l'ONU peut accomplir grâce à ses bons offices, surtout dans la diplomatie préventive. Les résultats sont visibles au Népal et au Kenya, ainsi que, je l'espère, au Zimbabwe. À Chypre, île divisée depuis si longtemps, les chances de réunification sont réelles. En Géorgie, l'ONU peut aider à désamorcer les tensions liées au récent conflit. En Côte d'Ivoire, nous aiderons à organiser, avant la fin de l'année, des élections représentant un pas immense vers le relèvement et la démocratie. Au Darfour, les délais de déploiement demeurent difficiles à respecter. Le matériel et le personnel indispensables ne sont pas encore en place.
Je manquerais à mes obligations si je ne soulignais pas à quel point il est dangereux de faire comme si l'ONU pouvait régler tous les problèmes complexes de notre temps sans bénéficier de l'entier support des États Membres. Sans les ressources nécessaires, les mandats sont vides de sens.
Ladies and gentlemen:
The global financial crisis endangers all our work – financing for development, social spending in rich nations and poor, the Millennium Development Goals.
If ever there were a call to collective action – a call for global leadership – it is now. At the Doha Review Conference, later this year, we have an opportunity to address the critical issues of international economic cooperation and development. I urge all Members to engage, at the highest levels. We need to restore order to the international financial markets. We need a new understanding on business ethics and governance, with more compassion and less uncritical faith in the “magic” of markets. And we must think about how the world economic system should evolve to more fully reflect the changing realities of our time.
Mesdames et Messieurs,
D'autres problèmes appellent une prise en main déterminée à l'échelle mondiale. Je pense notamment à la lutte contre le paludisme et le sida, et à la réduction de la mortalité des mères et des enfants. Je pense au terrorisme, ainsi qu'au désarmement et à la non-prolifération, qui n'ont rien perdu de leur importance. Je note les progrès des pourparlers à six sur la Péninsule coréenne et demande instamment que les accords soient appliqués. Je demande une nouvelle fois à l'Iran de se conformer aux résolutions du Conseil de sécurité et de coopérer pleinement avec l'Agence internationale de l'énergie atomique.
Je pense, surtout, aux droits de l'homme. Nous devons absolument donner vie au principe selon lequel la justice est un pilier de la paix, de la sécurité et du développement. Nous devons donner effet à la Responsabilité de Protéger. Nous comprenons que dans ces domaines, tout n'est pas noir ou blanc. Nous admettons que la politique peut être très complexe et nécessite d'incessants compromis. Mais les crimes contre l'humanité ne peuvent rester impunis. Nous avons les moyens de combattre l'impunité. Et donc nous le devons.
Enfin, je pense au problème fondamental de notre temps: les changements climatiques. En décembre dernier, à Bali, les dirigeants des pays du monde se sont mis d'accord sur une feuille de route pour la période allant jusqu'à 2012, date à laquelle le Protocole de Kyoto cessera de nous guider. Nous devons reprendre notre élan. Le premier test se présentera dans trois mois, à Poznan. D'ici là, nous devons parvenir à nous faire une idée commune de la forme que pourrait prendre un accord mondial sur les changements climatiques. Il ne reste de 14 mois avant Copenhague. J'exhorte les Gouvernements polonais et danois, ainsi que tous les États Membre de l'ONU, à déployer toute leur puissance d'entraînement, à l'échelle mondiale, pour faire avancer cette question littéralement existentielle.
Excellencies,
Ladies and gentlemen,
In closing, let me briefly return to the theme of my address to you last year – a stronger UN for a better world. The foundation of all our work is accountability. The UN Secretariat, including myself, is accountable to you, the Member States. And that is why I push so hard, so strongly for UN reform.
We need to change the UN culture. We need to become faster, more flexible and more effective and more modern. In the coming weeks, I will ask you, the Member States, to support my proposals for a new human resources framework. We need to replace our current system of contracts and conditions of service. It is dysfunctional. It is demoralizing. It discourages mobility between UN departments and the field. It promotes stagnation, rather than creativity. It undercuts our most precious resource – the global, dedicated corps of international civil servants that is the backbone of the United Nations.
Whenever I travel, I go out of my way to meet these brave and committed men and women. They work in the most difficult circumstances, often at great personal sacrifice. I cannot fully express my admiration for them. The time has come to invest more in our staff. And that is why I am promoting mobility, matched with proper career training, as a way to create new professional opportunities – to inject new flexibility and dynamism into the Organization.
Finally, Distinguished delegates, let us also remember:
You, the Member States, are accountable to each other and to the Organization, as well. You cannot continue to pass resolutions mandating ambitious peace operations without the necessary troops, money and materiel. We cannot send our brave UN staff around the world – 25 of whom died this year – without doing all we can to assure their security. We cannot reform this vital Organization without providing the required resources.
Distinguished Heads of State and Government, Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen:
It takes leadership to honor our pledges and our promises in the face of fiscal constraints and political opposition. It takes leadership to commit our soldiers to a cause of peace in faraway places. It takes leadership to speak out for justice; To act on climate change despite powerful voices against your leadership; To stand against protectionism and make trade concessions, even in our enlightened self-interest. Yet ... that is why we are here.
We have before us a great opportunity. We have ample reason to be optimistic. Today's uncertainties will pass. The challenges before us are our creation. Therefore we can solve them, together. By acting wisely and responsibly, we will set the stage for a new era of global prosperity, more widely and equitably shared.
I count on your leadership.
Thank you very much.

2009
Mr. President,  Distinguished Heads of State and Government,  Distinguished Delegates,  Ladies and Gentlemen,
Mr. President, let me express my heartfelt congratulations on your assumption of the presidency. I wish you every success and assure you of my full support.
Excellencies,  Ladies and Gentlemen:
We gather each and every September in a solemn rite. We come to reaffirm our founding Charter — our faith in fundamental principles of peace, justice, human rights and equal opportunity for all. We assess the state of the world, engage on the key issues of the day, lay out our vision for the way ahead.
This year the opening of the General Debate of the 64th session of the General Assembly asks us to rise to an exceptional moment. Amid many crises -- food, energy, recession and pandemic flu, hitting all at once -- the world looks to us for answers.
If ever there were a time to act in a spirit of renewed multilateralism -- a moment to create a United Nations of genuine collective action -- it is now.
Excellencies,
Distinguished Delegates,
Now is our time. A time to put the “united” back into the United Nations. United in purpose. United in action.
First — let us make this a year that we, united nations, rise to the greatest challenge we face as a human family: the threat of catastrophic climate change. Yesterday, 100 heads of state and government set out the next steps toward Copenhagen . They recognized the need for an agreement all nations can embrace, in line with their capabilities -- consistent with what science requires -- grounded in “green jobs” and “green growth,” the lifeline of the 21 st century. Our road to Copenhagen requires us to bridge our differences. I firmly believe we can.
Second — let this be the year that nations united to free our world of nuclear weapons. For too long, this great cause has lain dormant. That is why, last October, I proposed a 5-point plan for putting disarmament back on the global agenda. And now, the international climate is changing. The Russian Federation and the United States have pledged to cut their nuclear arsenals. This coming May, at the United Nations Review Conference on the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, we have an opportunity to push for real progress.
Tomorrow's historic Security Council summit — chaired by the President of the United States, with us for the first time — offers a fresh start. With action now, we can get the ratifications to bring the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty into force. Together, let us make this the year we agreed to banish the bomb.
Third — in our fight against world poverty, let this be the year we focus on those left behind. Some speak of “green shoots of recovery,” but we see red flags of warning. Our recent report, “Voices of the Vulnerable,” highlights a new crisis. The near-poor are becoming the new poor. An estimated 100 million people could fall below the poverty line this year. Markets may be bouncing back, but incomes and jobs are not.
People are angry. They believe the global economy is stacked against them. That is why we have put forward a Global Jobs Pact for balanced and sustainable growth. That is why we are creating a new Global Impact Vulnerability Alert System, giving us real-time data and analysis on the socio-economic picture around the world. We need to know who is being hurt, and where, so we can best respond.
That is also why, next year at this time, we will convene a special summit on the Millennium Development Goals. With only five years to go, we must mount a final push toward 2015. Rightly, we put women and children at the fore. UNICEF reports a 28 percent decline in child mortality over the past two decades. We can hope for similar progress on maternal health and mortality.
The prevention of sexual violence against women must be a top priority. Let us agree: these acts are an abomination. Leaders of every nation are personally accountable when such crimes are committed within their borders. When women die in childbirth, when they are raped as a weapon of war and have nowhere to turn, we of the United Nations cannot look the other way. And that is why, just recently, you agreed to create a single agency to address women's issues. We have never been more empowered to empower women.
Excellencies,
This Assembly also reaffirmed the responsibility to protect. In our modern era, no nation, large or small, can violate the human rights of its citizens with impunity. Where conflicts arise, justice and accountability should follow.
That is why the work of the International Criminal Court is so vital. We look to the review conference in Kampala , next May, as an opportunity to strengthen its mandate.
We can achieve none of our noble goals without peace, security and justice. In Darfur , that means consolidating recent progress and delivering on our mandate. We will be 90 percent deployed by year's end. Yet we still lack critical assets, particularly transport and helicopters. Meanwhile, we must continue to work, urgently, for the broader stability of Sudan and the region and shore up the comprehensive peace with South Sudan .
Somalia continues to demand attention whether to support African peacekeepers and the government or international anti-piracy efforts.
We will continue to press for resettlement, reconciliation and accountability in Sri Lanka . We welcome the government's commitment to allow all displaced persons to return to their homes by the end of January — as reaffirmed last week to my envoy.
We will work hard for freedom and democracy in Myanmar . The release of some political prisoners last week falls short of what is needed. We call on Myanmar 's friends and neighbors to do more, much more, in the best interests of Myanmar and its people. If next year's elections are to be accepted as credible and inclusive, all political prisoners must be released -- including Daw Aung San Suu Kyi.
We worked to stop the bloodshed in Gaza . Yet people continue to suffer. Issues of justice and accountability need to be addressed. We must revive negotiations toward a two-state solution and a comprehensive peace in the Middle East . We support President Obama's efforts for a resumption of peace talks and will work with the Quartet to that end.
In Afghanistan , we face a difficult environment. Recent elections revealed serious defects. Yet we should not forget the progress made -- progress we can build on. We are committed to seeing the Afghans through their long night. We will stay with them. We pledge to stand, as well, with the people of Pakistan .
We have made significant progress in Timor Leste, Haiti , Sierra Leone and Nepal . We see quiet progress in Iraq -- and fresh opportunities in Cyprus . Now is the time to take stock and move forward.
Excellencies, Distinguished Heads of State and Government, Ladies and Gentlemen,
Let me close by inviting you to look around you. By the end of this General Assembly, our Secretariat building will be empty. Our staff will have dispersed across the city. Our United Nations will be completely renovated. Our common ambition is to make this outward renovation the symbol of our inward renewal .
That is why we have placed such emphasis on building a stronger United Nations for a better world. We have made progress in Delivering as One UN. We have made strides in getting “peace-building” right, so that societies emerging from war do not slide back into conflict. We have sharpened our tools of mediation and diplomacy so that we can stop crises from escalating into broader and more costly tragedies. We created the Department of Field Support, and we are developing the “New Horizons” strategy to make peacekeeping more agile and effective.
In this, we need the strong support of Member States, just as we do to secure the safety of our brave staff serving in dangerous places, too many of whom have lost their lives in the causes we all serve.
Excellencies, Distinguished Delegates, Heads of State and Government, Ladies and Gentlemen,
This year, I have traveled from the ice rim of the Arctic to the steppes of Mongolia . I have seen, first-hand, the effects of climate change on our planet and its people.
In the Democratic Republic of the Congo , I met an 18-year-old girl raped by soldiers. Her hope for a new life is the United Nations.
At summits from Trinidad and Tobago , London to L'Aquila , I have spoken out on one point above all others.
We of the United Nations are the voice of the voiceless, the defenders of the defenseless.
If we are to offer genuine hope to the hopeless, if we are to truly turn the corner to economic recovery, then we must do so for all nations and for all people. So much is possible if we work together. Together, we are here to take risks, to assume the burden of responsibility, to rise to an exceptional moment, to make history. This year, of all years, asks no less.
Because we are the United Nations. We are the best hope for humankind. And now is our time.
Thank you very much for your leadership and commitment. Thank you.
2010
Mr. President,  Distinguished Heads of State and Government,  Distinguished Delegates,  Ladies and Gentlemen,
Welcome to New York in this beautiful autumn season.
And welcome to the opening of this 65th general debate.
Mr. President, congratulations.
I look forward to working closely with you in the year ahead, across the full range of challenges facing our community of nations.
Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen,
We, the peoples of the United Nations, are bound by certain sacred duties and obligations.
To care for the welfare of others.
To resolve conflicts peacefully.
To act in the world with empathy and understanding.
To practice tolerance and mutual respect as a bedrock principle of civilization.
Today, we are being tested.
Social inequalities are growing, among nations and within.
Everywhere, people live in fear of losing jobs and incomes.
Too many are caught in conflict, women and children are bearing the brunt.
And we see a new politics at work - a politics of polarization.
We hear the language of hate, false divisions between “them” and “us”, those who insist on “their way” or “no way.”
Amid such uncertainty, so much confusion of purpose, we naturally seek a moral compass.
At the United Nations, we find the proper path in community, global cause, fair decisions, mutual responsibility for a destiny we share.
Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen,
This is the soul of global governance, the theme of this General Assembly.
A collective stand, principled and pragmatic, against forces that would divide us.
And that is why the United Nations remains the indispensable global institution for the 21st-century.
As we gather today, in solidarity, let us recognize:
This is a season for pulling together, for consolidating progress, for putting our shoulder to the wheel and delivering results.
Real results, for people most in need, as only the United Nations can do.
Excellencies, Distinguished Delegates,
Together, over the past three years, we embraced an ambitious agenda, framed by three over-arching ideas for our time.
A more prosperous world, free of the deepest poverty.
A cleaner, greener and more sustainable world for our children.
A safer world, free of nuclear weapons.
Those are the great challenges of our era.
They are not dreams.
They are opportunities, within our power to grasp.
Together, we have made progress.
We will press ahead - with fresh thinking, fresh approaches, a strong sense of leadership and political will.
The Millennium Development Goals Summit showed our collective determination. World leaders came together with concrete national plans to meet the Millennium Development Goals by 2015.
They agreed on a responsible and mutually accountable partnership, a partnership that will better the lives of billions of people within our generation.
Our challenge is to deliver on this promise, to turn hopes into realities.
We must draw on lessons learned over the past decade:
Helping people to help themselves;
Investing resources where they have the greatest effect - smart investment in education, decent work, health, smallholder agriculture, infrastructure and green energy;
The importance of putting women at the fore.
That is why, at the Summit, I welcomed the endorsement of our Global Strategy for Women and Children's Health.
Backed by billions of dollars in new commitments, from governments, business, NGOs and philanthropic organizations, this was a tangible expression of global solidarity.
That is also why, last week, I named a dynamic new head of UN Women.
In Michelle Bachelet, the former President of Chile, we found a global leader who can inspire millions of women and girls around the world.
We must support her to the utmost.
Because, by empowering women, we empower societies.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Three years ago, we called climate change the “defining challenge” of our era, and so it remains.
Clearly, the road toward a comprehensive, binding agreement, in Cancun and beyond ? will not be easy.
And yet, we have made progress, and we can make more.
This is a year to build on important areas of agreement - on financing for adaptation and mitigation, on technology transfer, on capacity-building and preventing deforestation.
In the longer-term, we face the “50-50-50 challenge.”
By 2050, the world's population will grow by 50 percent.
To keep climate change in check, we will need to cut greenhouse gas emissions by 50 percent by then.
The world looks to us for creative solutions.
And that is why, on Sunday, we hosted the first meeting of our high-level Panel on Global Sustainability.
I am confident that it will stimulate new thinking as we work toward Rio+20 in 2012.
On nuclear disarmament, as well, we see new momentum:
A new START agreement, the Summit on Nuclear Security, a successful NPT review conference.
Our role is to keep pushing, to find a path to bring the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty into force, to realize agreements on fissile materials and securing nuclear materials and facilities.
Tomorrow, we are hosting a high level meeting to rejuvenate the Conference on Disarmament.
I believe the next few years will be critical.
Will we advance our work on non-proliferation and disarmament, or will we slide back?
It is up to us.
Excellencies,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
As always, over the past year, we were there for those in urgent need:
The people of Pakistan, coping with epic floods and the monumental task of reconstruction;
The people of Haiti, where the work of rebuilding goes on, and where so many lost their lives, including 101 of our colleagues;
The people of Somalia, Sudan, Niger, Gaza.
As always, we continue to work for peace and security.
Three years ago, in partnership with the African Union, we deployed the first peacekeeping force in Darfur.
During the coming year, the United Nations will be critical to keeping a larger peace as north and south Sudan decide their future. Tomorrow's High-Level Meeting on Sudan will help chart that path.
In the Democratic Republic of the Congo, we have adapted our mission to new and changing circumstances.
We have worked closely with the African Union in Somalia.
We have seen victories for preventive diplomacy, as well.
In Iraq, we helped broker the compromises that kept this year's elections on track.
In Guinea, we stand with regional partners in insisting on democracy.
In Sierra Leone, we helped defuse confrontations and keep peace moving forward.
Quick-footed diplomacy helped contain the troubles in Kyrgyzstan.
In Afghanistan, we carry on our work despite exceptionally difficult security and humanitarian conditions.
We will seek to reduce tensions on the Korean Peninsula and encourage the Democratic People's Republic of Korea to return to the Six-Party Talks.
On Iran, we continue to urge the government to engage constructively with the international community and comply fully with the relevant Security Council resolutions.
In the Middle East, we see encouraging movement toward a comprehensive peace.
Working with the Quartet, we will do everything possible to help bring negotiations to a successful conclusion.
I strongly discourage either side from any action that would hold back progress.
In all we do, human rights are at the core. There can be no peace without justice.
The global community has worked hard and long to usher in a new “age of accountability.”
In our modern era, let us send a clear message:
No nation, large or small, can violate the rights of its citizens with impunity.
Excellencies, Distinguished Delegates, Ladies and Gentlemen,
Let me close on a theme that has defined our work together: building a stronger UN for a better world.
The renovation of our Secretariat is on track, on schedule, on budget.
Organizational changes introduced over the past few years are bearing fruit.
Among them: the “New Horizons” initiative to streamline peacekeeping operations.
In consultation with the Member States and our staff, we will do all in our power to create a faster, more modern, flexible and effective UN workforce, to recruit the best talent of tomorrow.
Heads of State and Government, Distinguished Ministers, Ladies and Gentlemen,
Today and in the months ahead, we will speak of many things - important issues, affecting all humankind.
Let us remember, in these difficult times: we are being tested.
Let us remember: the many lives lost in service to our ideals.
Let us remember: the world still looks to the United Nations for moral and political leadership.
The great goals are within reach.
We can achieve them by looking forward, pulling together, uniting our strength as a community of nations, in the name of the larger good.
Thank you very much, and I count on your leadership and commitment. Thank you.

2011
Mr. President, Distinguished Heads of State and Government,
Excellencies, Ladies and gentlemen,
Late next month, a child will be born ... the 7 billionth citizen of our planet Earth.
Let us assume this child is a girl. Most likely she will be poor. She may or may not grow up to be healthy and strong.
If she is especially lucky, she will be educated and go out into the world, full of hopes and dreams.
Beyond that, we know only one thing with certainty: she will enter a world of vast and unpredictable change ... environmental, economic, geopolitical, technological, demographic.
The world's population has tripled since the United Nations was created. And our numbers keep growing.
So do the pressures on land, energy, food and water.
The global economic crisis continues to shake businesses, governments and families around the world.
Joblessness is rising. Social inequalities grow wider. Too many people live in fear.
Excellencies,
The UN exists to serve those in whose name it was conceived ... “WE THE PEOPLES.”
During the past five years as UN Secretary-General, I have travelled the world to meet people where they live, to hear their hopes and fears.
Two weeks ago I visited Kiribati and the Solomon Islands. Villagers told me of their fear of climate change. Rising seas are washing into their homes. One day, they might be swept away entirely.
A young girl named Tamauri mustered her courage to speak. “What will become of us," she asked. "What can the United Nations do for us ... "
Today, I pose her question to all of you ... distinguished Heads of State and Government and leaders of the world.
What can we do ... How can we help our people find greater peace, prosperity and justice in a world of crises ...
Excellencies,
Ladies and gentlemen,
As I reflect on my time in office during the last five years, I am full of passionate conviction ... unshakable faith in the enduring importance of this noble United Nations.
Today, I would like to share with you my perspective on the way ahead. As I see it, we have five imperatives ... five generational opportunities to shape the world of tomorrow by the decisions we make today.
The first and greatest of these is sustainable development ... the imperative of the 21st century.
Saving our planet, lifting people out of poverty, advancing economic growth ... these are one and the same fight.
We must connect the dots between climate change, water scarcity, energy shortages, global health, food security and women's empowerment. Solutions to one problem must be solutions for all.
Rio+20 must succeed.
We must make progress on climate change.
We cannot burn our way to the future. We cannot pretend the danger does not exist ... or dismiss it because it affects someone else.
Today, I call on you to reach a binding climate change agreement ... an agreement with more ambitious national and global emissions targets.
And we need action on the ground, now ... on cutting emissions and on adaptation.
Excellencies,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Energy is key ... to our planet, to our way of life. That is why we have launched a pioneering new initiative, Sustainable Energy for All.
We must invest in people ... particularly in education and women's and children's health. Development is not sustainable unless it is equitable and serves all people.
We must intensify our efforts to achieve the Millennium Development Goals, and more.
Today, I urge you to think even bigger and beyond the 2015 deadline.
Let us develop a new generation of sustainable development goals to pick up where the MDGs leave off. Let us agree on the means to achieve them.
Excellencies,
A second great opportunity: prevention.
This year, the UN peacekeeping budget will total $8 billion.
Consider the savings if we act before conflicts erupt ... by deploying political mediation missions, for example, rather than troops.
We know how to do this. Our record proves it ... in Guinea, Kenya, Kyrgyzstan.
To prevent violations of human rights, we must work for the rule of law and stand against impunity. We have carved out a new dimension for the Responsibility to Protect. We will continue.
To prevent runaway damage from natural disasters, we must work for better disaster-risk reduction and preparedness.
And let us remember: development is ultimately the best prevention.
Today, I ask your support.
Let us commit the resources required. Let us raise “prevention” from an abstract concept to a core operating principle, across the spectrum of our work.
Ladies and gentlemen,
A third imperative: building a safer and more secure world ... our core responsibility as the United Nations.
This year we were sorely tested. In Côte d'Ivoire, we stood firm for democracy and human rights. Working closely with our regional partners, we made a difference in the lives of millions of people.
In Afghanistan and Iraq, we will carry on our missions with determination and commitment to the people of these proud nations.
In Darfur, we continue to save lives and help keep peace under difficult conditions. Our success demands the cooperation and full support of the international community, the parties on the ground and the Sudanese Government.
In Sudan, the parties to the Comprehensive Peace Agreement must work together to prevent conflict and settle outstanding issues.
In the Middle East, we must break the stalemate. We have long agreed that Palestinians deserve a state. Israel needs security. Both want peace. We pledge our unrelenting efforts to help achieve that peace through a negotiated settlement.
We must be innovative in maximizing the unique force for good that is UN peacekeeping. We are pioneering new approaches. We have strengthened our field support and reconfigured the architecture of peacekeeping operations.
In places like the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Sierra Leone, we are building peace by advancing civil society, promoting the rule of law and creating institutions of honest and effective governance.
Today we are capable of more rapid and effective response than ever before, and we will continue.
We remain the world's first emergency responders ... in Pakistan, Haiti and beyond.
It is essential that we continue to build on our most innovative and effective tool for humanitarian relief ... the Central Emergency Response Fund, or CERF.
Famine in Somalia continues to spread. I appeal to you: help save the children of the Horn of Africa.
As we learned in Fukushima and elsewhere, nuclear accidents do not respect national borders. We need global action. We need strong international safety standards to prevent future disasters.
Let us keep pushing on disarmament and non-proliferation. Let us fulfil the dream ... a world free of nuclear weapons.
Ladies and gentlemen,
The fourth big opportunity: supporting nations in transition.
This year's dramatic events in North Africa and the Middle East inspired us. Let us help make the Arab Spring a true season of hope for all.
In Libya, we are deploying a new UN support mission to assist the Libyan authorities establish a new government and legal order, consistent with the aspirations of the Libyan people.
Syria is a special concern. For six months we have seen escalating violence and repression. The Government has repeatedly pledged to undertake reforms and listen to its people. It has not done so. The moment to act is now. The violence must stop.
Others also look to us.
A country may be emerging from war. It may be moving from autocracy to democracy, from poverty to a new prosperity.
The UN must help that country find the right path.
That may involve support to restore justice or build back public services. It may mean helping to organize elections or write a constitution.
Our challenge today is to cement this progress ... and apply the lessons learned.
Nowhere is this challenge more clear than in our efforts to help South Sudan build a functioning state after decades of conflict.
Fifth and finally: we can dramatically advance our efforts in every sphere by working with ... and working for ... women and young people.
Women hold up more than half the sky and represent much of the world's unrealized potential. They are the educators. They raise the children. They hold families together and increasingly drive economies. They are natural leaders.
We need their full engagement ... in government, business and civil society. And this year, for the first time, we have UN Women ... our own unique and powerful engine for dynamic change.
I am especially pleased to see so many women at this year's General Assembly. I welcome, in particular, the next speaker ... Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff, the first woman in UN history to open our General Debate.
We can be proud of how many women leaders we have at the United Nations. We will continue our policy of promoting women at all levels of the Organization.
And we will focus on the new generation. Young people are more than our future. They are also our present, both in numbers and how they drive political and social change. We must find new ways to create decent jobs and opportunities for them ... around the world.
Excellencies,
These are extraordinary challenges. We cannot respond in ordinary ways.
We need one thing above all else ... solidarity.
That begins with the obvious: without resources, we cannot deliver.
Today, I ask governments that have traditionally borne the lion's share of the costs to not flag in their generosity.
Budgets are tight. Yet we also know that investing through the UN is smart policy. Burden-sharing makes the load lighter. Scaling back is no answer.
To the rising powers among you, whose dynamism increasingly drives the global economy ... with power comes responsibility.
For all, I ask that you give what you can ... expertise, peacekeepers, helicopters. Never underestimate the power of your leadership. Again and again, I have seen how the smallest nations make some of the largest contributions to our work.
Governments cannot do the job alone. To deliver for those in need, we must broaden our base and extend our reach. We must harness the full power of partnership across the Organization.
Our successes against malaria show the way. We see the transformative power of partnership in our Every Woman Every Child initiative, with funding commitments of more than $40 billion ... four times the annual UN budget.
When we combine the UN's unparalleled convening authority and technical resources with the various strengths of governments, the private sector and civil society, we are a formidable force for good.
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Finally, we must adapt to changing times.
At this time of austerity, we must do more with less. We must invest the global taxpayers' money wisely, eliminate waste and avoid duplication by Delivering as One.
Accountability and transparency remain our watchwords. We are accountable to the Member States. Yet we cannot become more efficient without their strong and consistent support.
We need to streamline the budget process and help the UN to deliver at a cost no nation can match on its own.
We must keep pushing to build a more modern and mobile workforce ... a UN that is faster and more flexible, a UN that innovates and draws on the power of social media and new technologies, a UN that helps solve real-world problems in real-time.
Last but hardly least, let us do everything we can to protect our UN staff. We have lost so many lives; the UN has become too soft a target.
Today, we remember with gratitude those who serve with such dedication in so many dangerous places.
Excellencies, Distinguished Heads of State and Government,
Here in this great hall, the shrinking islands in the vast Pacific may seem far away. Yet I hear that young girl's plea as clearly as if she were next to me.
Perhaps that is because, 60 years ago, I was that child.
The United Nations is the answer, as it was then.
Standing here today, I hear many millions of other young boys and girls ... asking our help, looking for hope.
“WE THE PEOPLES.”
Seven billion now look to us ... the world's leaders.
They need solutions. They demand leadership. They want us to act.
To act with compassion, courage and conviction.
To act in concert ... nations united at the United Nations.
Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen:
Let us carry on this journey together.
Thank you.

2012
We gather annually in this great hall to look soberly, and without illusion, at the state of our world.
This year, I am here to sound the alarm about our direction as a human family.
We can all see widespread insecurity and injustice, inequality and intolerance.
I see Governments wasting vast and precious funds on deadly weapons – while reducing investments in people.
The severe and growing impacts of climate change are there before our eyes – yet too many people in power seem willfully blind to the threat.
This is a time of turmoil, transition and transformation – a time when time itself is not on our side.
People want jobs and the prospect of a decent life.
All too often, what they get instead is divisiveness… delay... and denial of their dreams and aspirations.
We need to look no further than this room to see expressions of the thirst for progress. A large number of you are here for the first time – new leaders, installed by new voices, and expected to make decisive breaks with the past.
Your people want to see results in real time, now, not the distant future.
The United Nations rightly faces the same scrutiny -- the same impatience -- the same demands for accountability. People do not look to this organization to be simply a mirror reflecting back a divided world.
People want progress and solutions today. They want ideas, your leadership and concrete hope for the future.
Our duty is to respond to these frustrations and yearnings.
My action agenda highlights five imperatives, as I have set out in January this year: sustainable development, prevention, building a more secure world, helping countries in transition and empowering women and youth.
I take heart from important steps forward on some of these fronts.
Extreme poverty has been cut in half since the year 2000.
Democratic transitions are under way in the Arab world, Myanmar and many other countries.
Africa’s economic growth has become the fastest in the world.
Asia and Latin America are making important advances.
Still, we must raise our levels of ambition.
We need more from each and every one of you. And the world needs more from our United Nations.
Mesdames et Messieurs,
Le développement durable est porteur de nos espoirs pour l’avenir. En tant que Secrétaire général, j’en ai fait ma toute première priorité.
Pourtant, la pauvreté et l’inégalité demeurent généralisées.
Notre utilisation des ressources pousse la planète à la limite de ce qu’elle peut supporter. Pour certains écosystèmes, cette limite est sur le point d’être atteinte. Selon les meilleurs scientifiques du monde, nous devons changer de cap avant qu’il ne soit trop tard.
Hier, le Président de la Banque mondiale et moi-même avons annoncé que dans le cadre de l’initiative « Énergie durable pour tous », des dizaines de milliards de dollars vont pouvoir être dégagés pour des projets portant sur l’accès à l’énergie et l’efficacité énergétique.
Demain, je lancerai une nouvelle initiative intitulée « L’éducation avant tout ».
Jeudi, nous annoncerons de nouvelles contributions importantes pour l’initiative « Renforcer la nutrition ».
Et ces deux dernières années, 260 partenaires de l’initiative « Toutes les femmes, tous les enfants » ont déboursé des fonds supplémentaires s’élevant à 10 milliards de dollars.
Nous prouvons, sur le terrain, que les partenariats bien pensés peuvent donner – et donnent – des résultats qu’aucun d’entre nous ne pourrait obtenir seul.
Il reste à peine trois ans jusqu’à l’expiration du délai fixé pour la réalisation des objectifs du Millénaire pour le développement. Nous devons redoubler d’efforts pour éliminer la misère. La crise économique ne peut servir d’excuse pour revenir sur des engagements qui concernent les besoins fondamentaux de tous les êtres humains.
Cela étant, même si nous atteignons les OMD, il restera beaucoup à faire.
La Conférence Rio +20 a ouvert la voie, notamment à l’adoption d’un ensemble d’objectifs de développement durable.
Ces nouveaux objectifs, ainsi que le programme de développement pour l’après-2015, orienteront nos travaux pendant des années.
Les OMD ont déclenché une mobilisation remarquable à l’échelle mondiale. Ces nouveaux dispositifs doivent faire de même : toucher et inspirer les gens du monde entier.
Excellencies,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Action on climate change remains a major piece of unfinished business.
Last December, Member States agreed to reach a legally binding agreement by 2015. Now, you must make good on this promise. Time is running out on our ability to limit the rise in global temperature to 2 degrees centigrade.
Changing course will not be easy. But to see this as only a burden misses the bigger picture. Sustainability and the green economy offer compelling opportunities to promote jobs, growth, innovation and long-term stability.
The future we want can be ours – if we act now.
Excellencies,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Just as there can be no peace without development, there can be no development without peace.
I am profoundly concerned about continued violence in Afghanistan and in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. I urge Sudan and South Sudan to resolve all remaining post-secession issues.
Somalia has made courageous advances and Libya has held its first free elections in half a century.
Gains must be nurtured and sustained. And we must keep our focus on preventing conflicts before they erupt -- and on settling disputes through peaceful means.
Myanmar’s leaders have shown courage and determination in moving on the path of democracy and reconciliation.
The country faces many challenges, from economic reform to the protection of ethnic minorities. As the Government and citizenry work together to meet these responsibilities, the international community and the United Nations must provide the strongest possible support.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
The crisis in the Sahel is not getting sufficient attention and support.
Poverty, fragility, drought and sectarian tensions are threats to stability across the region. Unconstitutional changes of government have taken place all too frequently. Extremism is on the rise. Arms are easy to obtain, while jobs are hard to find.
The international community needs a major concerted effort to address this alarming situation. Tomorrow, I will outline our ideas for an integrated strategy. Governments and organizations in the region, as well as international partners, will work out the details in the coming weeks. I urge you to engage and give your strong assistance.
The situation in the Sahel highlights the need to strengthen early warning for development. Sensors and seismographs across the world help us prepare for natural disasters. We must do more to detect the tremors of distress facing the poorest and most vulnerable.
We must also focus greater attention on food security and nutritional resilience. For millions of people, frequent shocks are the new norm.
Food prices are increasingly volatile, provoking public anxiety, panic buying and civil disturbance.
We need to bolster safety nets. We must ramp up investments in sustainable agriculture – particularly for smallholder farmers. Governments must not impose trade restrictions on grains or other agricultural products. This reduces food supplies and discourages farmers from growing more.
Together, we can avoid the food crises we have seen in recent years and achieve our goal of Zero Hunger.
Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen,
The situation in Syria grows worse by the day.
The crisis is no longer limited to Syria; it is a regional calamity with global ramifications.
This is a serious and growing threat to international peace and security which requires Security Council action.
I call on the international community – especially the members of the Security Council and countries in the region – to solidly and concretely support the efforts of Joint Special Representative Lakhdar Brahimi.
We must stop the violence and flows of arms to both sides, and set in motion a Syrian-led transition as soon as possible.
Humanitarian needs are escalating, in and beyond Syria.
The international community should not look the other way as violence spirals out of control. Brutal human rights abuses continue to be committted, mainly by the Government, but also by opposition groups.
Such crimes must not go unpunished. There is no statute of limitations for such extreme violence.
It is the duty of our generation to put an end to impunity for international crimes, in Syria and elsewhere.
It is our duty to give tangible meaning to the responsibility to protect.
Excellencies,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
The winds of change in the Arab world and elsewhere will continue to blow.
After decades of harsh occupation and humiliating restrictions in almost every aspect of their lives, the Palestinians must be able to realize their right to a viable state of their own.
Israel must be able to live in peace and security, free from threats and rockets.
The two-state solution is the only sustainable option. Yet the door may be closing, for good. The continued growth of Israeli settlements in the occupied Palestinian territory seriously undermines efforts toward peace. We must break this dangerous impasse.
I also reject both the language of delegitimization and threats of potential military action by one state against another.
Any such attacks would be devastating. The shrill war talk of recent weeks has been alarming -- and should remind us of the need for peaceful solutions and full respect for the UN Charter and international law.
Leaders have a responsibility to use their voices to lower tensions instead of raising the temperature and volatility of the moment.
Building a more secure world also means pursuing our goal of a world free of nuclear weapons. As long as such weapons exist, we are all at risk.
I look forward to a successful conference later this year on the establishment of a Middle East zone free of nuclear weapons and all other weapons of mass destruction.
Iran must prove the solely peaceful intent of its programme. The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea must move toward de-nuclearization of the Korean peninsula.
All relevant Security Council resolutions should be implemented in full and without delay.
Excellencies,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
We shall have neither peace nor development without respect for human rights and the rule of law.
The empowerment of women. The protection of children. The treaties and declarations that have extended the umbrella of protection. They are our touchstones.
Yesterday’s high-level meeting on the rule of law sent a strong message about the importance of international law, justice and institutions within and among nations.
Over the past two weeks a disgraceful act of great insensitivity has led to justifiable offense and unjustifiable violence.
Freedom of speech and assembly are fundamental. But neither of these freedoms is a license to incite or commit violence.
Yet we live in a world where, too often, divisions are exploited for short-term political gain
Too many people are ready to take small flames of difference and turn them into a bonfire.
Too many people are tolerant of intolerance.
The moderate majority should not be a silent majority. It must empower itself, and say to bigots and extremists alike: “you do not speak for us”.
Responsible political and community leaders must step up at this time.
Mesdames et Messieurs,
Face à de tels enjeux, l’ONU doit continuer de se renouveler. Nous devons être unis dans l’action, collaborer entre disciplines, entre structures et entre lieux d’affectation.
Nous sommes en train de créer un Secrétariat mondial, capable d’appuyer notre présence mondiale, grâce à des services partagés, des dispositifs intégrés et des utilisations novatrices des moyens technologiques.
La mobilité du personnel est un premier pas essentiel. Il y a longtemps qu’une initiative allant dans ce sens aurait dû être adoptée. Nous ferons une proposition à ce sujet dans les semaines à venir, et nous aurons besoin de votre appui.
Nous devons trouver ensemble le moyen de rationaliser le processus budgétaire et de l’ancrer dans la confiance. La microgestion ne sert les intérêts de personne : ni ceux des États Membres qui attendent des résultats rapides, ni ceux des représentants du Secrétariat qui, comme vous, tendent vers l’excellence. En tant que Secrétaire général, je dois avoir assez de marge de manœuvre pour assurer la gestion dans un environnement dynamique.
Nous devons aussi nous préparer à exploiter pleinement le potentiel que recèlent les partenariats dans tous les domaines.
Je ferai prochainement des propositions précises sur le renforcement des moyens dont nous disposons pour constituer de tels partenariats, ce qui nous permettra d’obtenir plus de résultats et de meilleurs résultats, d’imposer le principe de responsabilité et d’accroître la cohérence. Nous aurons absolument besoin de votre appui pour nous acquitter de toutes les tâches importantes que vous confiez à l’ONU.
Une ONU plus forte est indispensable à tout ce que nous espérons accomplir pour les peuples du monde. Nous devons prouver que l’ONU est capable de se réformer et d’évoluer avec son temps.
Excellencies,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
I have always put people first, and challenges at the centre.
We have worked together for solutions to the problems that matter to people by day – and that keep them up at night.
You, the world’s leaders, hold in your hands the power of the state... and the levers of government...
Your people expect you to listen to their aspirations, and to unleash their energies and ideas.
The world expects you to work with each other for the common good.
Nobody can do everything. But each of us, if we are united, in our own way, can do something.
Together, if all uphold our responsibilities, collective responsibilities, we can meet today’s tests, seize the opportunities of an era of dramatic change, and give new life to the principles and purposes of our founding Charter.
Excellencies,
I count on your strong leadership and commitment to make this world better for all.
Thank you very much.

22 January 2013
Let me start today’s discussion by thanking you for your support and encouragement throughout 2012. At the beginning, I offer you my best wishes for your continued good health and success throughout 2013 and beyond.
For several years now, we have come together in January for dialogue on our shared efforts to meet our shared goals.
This year, we meet amid tremendous turmoil and uncertainty. From armed conflict in Africa and the Middle East, to economic and environmental distress across the globe, we are being tested every minute of every day.
One year ago, with waves of monumental change surging around us, I called for equally dramatic steps to transform the human condition.
I identified five areas where needs are greatest and where collective action can make the greatest difference. They are: sustainable development; prevention; supporting nations in transition; building a more secure world; and empowering women and young people.
These imperatives -- these generational opportunities -- flow naturally from the eight priorities the General Assembly has set for the United Nations. They are: sustainable development, peace and security, human rights, humanitarian assistance, disarmament, justice, the development of Africa, drug control, crime prevention and combating terrorism.
My fervent hope -- and our common urgent need -- is that we can stop moving from crisis to crisis, from symptom to symptom, and instead address the underlying causes and inter-relationships, and recognize the flaws in many of our approaches.
I am pleased to report today on what we have achieved together in some of the areas – and where concerted action today can yield great gains tomorrow.
2012 fut une année de turbulences, mais aussi de gains tangibles.
À la Conférence sur le développement durable, Rio +20, nous avons fait un grand pas dans la bonne direction. Le mois dernier, à Doha, nous avons maintenu sur les rails les négociations sur le climat. C’est une priorité pour moi et, l’année prochaine, j’entends inviter les dirigeants du monde individuellement et collectivement, à mobiliser la volonté politique nécessaire à l’adoption, d’ici à 2015, d’un instrument fort, complet et contraignant sur les changements climatiques.
Les débats relatifs au programme de développement pour l’après-2015 ont démarré en force l’an dernier. Quarante-quatre pays ont adopté des plans d’accélération des activités axées sur les objectifs du Millénaire pour le développement. La croissance économique est restée robuste en Asie, en Afrique et en Amérique latine, ce qui a permis à des millions de personnes d’échapper à la pauvreté et à la marginalisation.
L’Assemblée générale a adopté une résolution phare sur les mutilations génitales féminines, et nous avons célébré la première Journée internationale de la fille, ouvrant ainsi la voie à des progrès dans la protection des enfants contre la discrimination, la violence, le mariage précoce et la circonscription forcée.
Mon initiative « L’éducation avant tout » a mis plus encore l’accent sur l’égalité des chances pour tous les enfants et, la semaine dernière, j’ai annoncé la nomination du premier Envoyé des Nations Unies pour la jeunesse, le Jordanien Ahmad Alhindawi.
L’opération de maintien de la paix qui était déployée au Timor-Leste a mené à bien sa mission. Des élections ont eu lieu en Sierra Leone, marquant une autre étape importante. Soucieux de faire une place plus grande à la prévention et aux interventions rapides, nous avons déployé des spécialistes de la médiation dans 22 pays.
Avec l’assistance de l’ONU, la Libye, la Somalie et le Yémen ont consolidé leurs acquis démocratiques. En appuyant les pays en transition, dont ceux qui sont inscrits à l’ordre du jour de la Commission de consolidation de la paix, nous avons contribué à améliorer les perspectives de paix à long terme.
Nous avons noué des liens plus étroits avec des organisations régionales, de l’Union africaine à l’ASEAN en passant par la Ligue des États arabes et l’Union européenne. L’Assemblée générale a adopté une résolution majeure sur la sécurité humaine. Nous avons rendu plus rigoureuse la procédure de sélection du personnel des missions des Nations Unies. Au titre du Fonds central pour les interventions d’urgence, qui aide les pays touchés par des catastrophes naturelles et d’autres sinistres, des montants plus importants que jamais ont été versés à plus de pays que jamais, ce qui montre qu’il s’agit réellement d’un mécanisme pour tous, financé par tous.
L’an dernier, l’ancien Président libérien Charles Taylor a été condamné pour crimes de guerre et crimes contre l’humanité; ce fut une nouvelle étape dans la consolidation de la justice pénale internationale, qui montre que nous sommes à l’ère de la responsabilité. Par ailleurs, la déclaration ambitieuse adoptée à la première réunion de haut niveau que l’Assemblée générale ait jamais consacrée à l’état de droit devrait aider les pays et la communauté internationale à renforcer l’action qu’ils mènent en faveur de la paix et de la sécurité, du développement et des droits de l’homme.
These achievements, and many more like them, spanned the full range of UN priorities. We responded to crisis, tried new approaches and built new foundations for a better future.
I am encouraged -- but I am far from satisfied. The stresses of our times, the pressures on our planet, the pain of the people we serve – all this demands that we do better in 2013.
We can start next Wednesday at the Syria Humanitarian Conference that I am convening in Kuwait. I appeal to Member States to send high-level delegations and come forward with generous pledges. I call on Syria’s neighbours to continue to allow those seeking refuge to cross borders to safety. And I thank His Highness Emir of Kuwait for his very generous position to convene this meeting together with me.
We must do everything we can to reach Syrians in need. We must intensify our efforts to end the violence through diplomacy, overcoming the divisions within Syria, the region and the Security Council. I call again for all states to cease sending arms to either side in Syria.
We remain a long way from getting the Government and opposition together to make the key decisions about the country’s future that only Syrians can make. In the meantime, we must make it clear that all perpetrators of atrocity crimes in Syria will be held to account.
Syria is one among several crises that have led to the largest refugee flows since the Kosovo crisis 13 years ago. Other large-scale displacements are taking place in Mali and the Sahel.
Mali is under threat from terrorists, with regional and global repercussions. Addressing these challenges requires political, security and humanitarian efforts. At the same time, in calibrating the extent of its own involvement, the United Nations has to carefully take into account the human rights, safety and security issues at stake.
Working with African and international partners, we must do our part to help fully restore Mali’s constitutional order and territorial integrity. Meanwhile, we continue to work towards an integrated strategy for the Sahel region that would address the mix of extremism, poverty, drought and governance challenges that is causing such profound misery and dangerous insecurity.
This year we must also re-consider our approach to the Democratic Republic of the Congo. I have been in close contact with President Kabila of the DRC and other leaders of the Great Lakes Region to establish a new peace and security framework to break the appalling cycle of violence. I hope the Framework will be signed at the upcoming AU Summit.
2013 will be a critical year for the Middle East Peace process. As illegal settlement activity continues and Israelis and Palestinians remain polarized, five key priorities stand out: first, we must renew collective international engagement; second, we must resume meaningful negotiations; third, we must preserve stability in Gaza; fourth, we must make progress on Palestinian reconciliation, and fifth, we must prevent the financial collapse of the Palestinian Authority. Concerted action is essential if we are to salvage the two-state solution.
We need to do more to advance the Responsibility to Protect in the face of grave crimes and incitement – and avoid un-doing the great progress we have made. In both Syria and Mali, we must do everything we can to keep those conflicts from generating reprisal killings that escalate into widespread ethnic and sectarian warfare and even genocidal activities.
And we need to advance the rule of law on disarmament and non-proliferation. I urge you to bring the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty into force. Conclude negotiations on an Arms Trade Treaty in March. Fulfill the Action Plan adopted at the 2010 NPT Review Conference. Begin negotiations in the Conference on Disarmament without further delay. And convene a conference this year on establishing a Middle East zone free of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction.
We will press ahead in 2013 on the paramount challenge of sustainable development.
In September, there will be a special event on the Millennium Development Goals to assess progress and discuss the contours of an ambitious, practical and coherent post-2015 development framework. Toward this end we will draw on the work of my High-level Panel of Eminent Persons, which will report to me at the end of May. Global consultations and other processes will also be key parts of this process.
I am pleased to note the imminent adoption by the General Assembly of a resolution establishing an Open Working Group on the Sustainable Development Goals. Let us do our utmost to inspire and mobilize the world behind this effort.
In September the General Assembly will hold high-level meetings on migration and on the rights of people with disabilities. We will prepare for conferences on the land-locked and small-island developing states to be held in 2014. And we will advance preparations for a World Humanitarian Summit to be held in 2015.
We continue our campaigns against violence based on sexual orientation. I urge Member States to come to the March session of the Commission on the Status of Women with specific plans to end violence against women, including through UN Women’s new COMMIT initiative. And we have high hopes for ESCWA’s recently launched work with regional bodies to establish an Arab Women’s Observatory to monitor and promote progress, protection and participation.
Our work at the national and international levels requires solidarity and mutual understanding. Next month at its forum in Vienna, the Alliance of Civilizations will continue its work to counter extremism and hatred. Whether on the world stage or in their communities, leaders have a responsibility to speak the language of tolerance and respect, not division and defamation.
Lasting solutions to global problems no longer lie in the hands of governments alone. The United Nations of the 21st century must think in terms of networks and coalitions.
I am pleased to report that the Every Woman Every Child alliance has generated more than $10 billion in new resources on life-saving health interventions. The Scaling Up Nutrition movement is making inroads against malnutrition and childhood stunting. The Sustainable Energy for All initiative will bring in more partners and pledges in 2013.
We will continue to explore where else to apply this model. I am putting forward a proposal to the General Assembly, through the Regular Budget process, for a UN Partnership Facility to accelerate our efforts. I ask for your strong support.
I reiterate my gratitude to the Member States for the generous investments in the Capital Master Plan. We have returned to a modernized Secretariat building. The renovation of the General Assembly will begin in June this year, and is expected to be finished late next year, along with the renovation of the conference building already under way.
We are moving ahead, with your blessing, on the deployment of our Enterprise Resource Planning system, Umoja, and the implementation of International Public Sector Accounting Standards, called IPSAS. Other major change management efforts include the integration of research, training and library services, and the moves towards a digital Secretariat through technological solutions such as the paper-smart concept, which I saw in action at the Doha climate change conference.
I look forward to your approval of the proposed mobility framework in March. The sooner the Organization can enjoy the benefits of a truly global workforce and Secretariat, the better.
I also look forward to continued dialogue on reforming the backstopping and funding of our political missions.
We in the Secretariat are well aware of the severe financial constraints that define our work. As I told the staff at a town hall meeting earlier this month, no one can afford so-called a greenhouse mentality in which there is always sun and water to nourish what we do.
It will be very difficult to cut a further $100 million from the budget for the next biennium, over and above the efficiencies I had already identified, as you have asked. But we are, of course, committed to budget discipline.
At the same time, as demands continue to grow, it is unrealistic to think that substantial budget reductions will have no impact. It is unsustainable for Member States to add and add while the Secretariat is asked to cut and cut.
I urge you to consider reviewing mandated activities that may have been fulfilled or overtaken by new developments. I appeal to you to review your practices, and find efficiencies there, too. Let us work together to weather the current financial storm.
This is no time for business as usual. To shape the future we want, we will have to think and act innovatively and differently. We will have to throw off another brake on our common progress: the tyranny of the status quo.
Too often, Governments and our international machinery operate on auto-pilot. Issues remain in their silos; worrying trends are allowed to persist and unfold, all because “that is the way things have been done”, or because true change is seen as costly or unrealistic, or entrenched interests have a hold on the legislative machinery.
This Organization has a solid record of achievement. UN staff across the world continue to perform heroically, often under daunting circumstances.
But we must do more than save lives, central as that is to our mission. We must save our very future.
Let us make the year ahead one in which we rise above disunity and the lowest common denominator, and show the world that good international solutions are in the national interest. I repear that: international solutions are in the national interest.
The decisions we take -- or fail to take -- in the crucial next few years will shape the world for decades to come. Let us be wise, responsible and forward-looking. Let us work as one to deliver for all.
Thank you very much for your leadership.

24 September 2014
It is a great honour to welcome you to this renovated General Assembly Hall.
This great Hall is home to “we the peoples”. It has been restored, renewed and reinvented for the 21st century.
I thank all of you for making it possible.
The Capital Master Plan was not an easy project. But you, the Member States, embraced the vision. You made the investment. Now we see the wonderful results: a state-of-the-art space in which we shall work together to improve the state of the world.
Please watch.
[39-SECOND “VIRTUAL RIBBON-CUTTING” PHOTO MONTAGE IS SCREENED]
We wanted to have, in fact, a grand opening ceremony. Because of frugality and time we just wanted to have this virtual opening ceremony.
In the name of all peoples and all nations, I am now proud to officially declare this General Assembly Hall open for business. Thank you. You saved a lot of money by having this virtual opening ceremony. Thank you very much for understanding.
Every year at this time, hope fills this hall: the hope embodied in the Charter of the United Nations; the hopes of leaders who speak from this podium; the hopes of people across the world who hear those promises.
This year, the horizon of hope is darkened. Our hearts are made very heavy by unspeakable acts and the deaths of innocents. Cold War ghosts have returned to haunt our times. We have seen so much of the Arab Spring go violently wrong.
Not since the end of the Second World War have there been so many refugees, displaced people and asylum seekers. Never before has the United Nations been asked to reach so many people with emergency food assistance and other life-saving supplies.
Diplomacy is on the defensive, undermined by those who believe in violence.  Diversity is under assault by extremists who insist that their way is the only way. Disarmament is viewed as a distant dream, sabotaged by profiteers of perpetual warfare.
It may seem as if the world is falling apart, as crises pile up and disease spreads.  But leadership is precisely about finding the seeds of hope and nurturing them into something bigger. That is our duty. That is my call to you today.
It has been a terrible year for the principles enshrined in the United Nations Charter. From barrel bombs to beheadings, from the deliberate starvation of civilians to the assault on hospitals, UN shelters and aid convoys, human rights and the rule of law are under attack.
After the latest tragedy in Gaza, Palestinians and Israelis seem more polarized than ever.
If we do not save the two-state solution, we will be left in a state of permanent hostilities.
The situation in and around Ukraine remains volatile.
In South Sudan, a struggle for political power has killed thousands of people and exposed millions to the threat of famine.
The Central African Republic is fractured and traumatized.
Mali and the Sahel continue to suffer from insurgency, terrorism, the illicit drug trade and organized crime.
In Somalia, a coalition of African States confronts the terrorist group Al-Shabab.
In Nigeria, Boko Haram’s murderous onslaught gains strength, with shocking impacts on women and girls.
In Iraq and Syria, we see new depths of barbarity with each passing day, and devastating spill-over effects across the region.
As Muslim leaders around the world have repeatedly said, there is nothing Islamic about the terrorist organizations wreaking havoc in the region. These extremist groups are a clear threat to international peace and security that requires a multi-faceted international response.
We need decisive action to stop atrocity crimes and frank discussions on what created the threat in the first place. The people of the region have been forced to walk on the broken shards of bad governance and bad decisions that failed to respect international law and basic human rights.
Across the world, the fragility of States and institutions has never been more apparent. Some have been hollowed out by corruption; others have pursued policies of exclusion that drive the victims towards anger, despair and violence. States must uphold their responsibility to govern – and govern for all their peoples.
Even where there is no overt warfare, violence still mars lives. Men prey on women across the globe, from battlefields to streets, from public spaces to the privacy of the home. Migrants face increasingly perilous journeys -- and closed doors upon arrival.
In many countries seen as models of integration, divisive politics are on the rise. People are very good at seeing prejudice in others, but less so in themselves. The trends that bring people together – instant communications, free trade and ease of travel – are also being exploited by forces that keep them apart.
The world’s “fasten seat belt” light is illuminated. Turbulence is testing the multilateral system, national institutions and people’s lives.
Human rights provide one touchstone for our response. The Human Rights Up Front initiative aims to place human rights at the centre of our thinking and our efforts in the field. The protection of nearly 100,000 people at UN bases throughout South Sudan has been an early milestone of this new approach.
The international community needs to be similarly sensitized to the value of human rights as an early warning mechanism. I urge Member States to fulfill their responsibilities to their populations. States also need to be open to discussing their own vulnerabilities. Let us recall that the Universal Declaration of Human Rights not only proclaims a set of freedoms; it also warns that people will not stand idle if they are not protected.
We need to do far more to anticipate problems and reach early political consensus.
To better meet the challenges before us, I have called for a review of United Nations peace operations and will appoint a high-level Review Panel in the coming weeks.
The unity of the Security Council is crucial. When the Security Council acts as one, we see results, such as the elimination of Syria’s chemical weapons programme; agreement on a peacekeeping operation for the Central African Republic; timely support for the peace framework in the Great Lakes region of Africa.
By contrast, continued disunity over Syria has resulted in grave human suffering and loss of credibility for the Council and our institution.
The General Assembly must also uphold its responsibilities and play its rightful role.
We must not let the smoke from today’s fires blind us to longer-term challenges and opportunities.
Hope may be hard to discern, but it is there. In clinics, classrooms and other places far from the spotlight, the development agenda is making remarkable progress.
Global poverty, child mortality and maternal deaths have been cut in half. More remains to be done, but these and other gains show the power of the Millennium Development Goals and what we can do when we work together.
Today an inspiring global conversation is taking place on an agenda for the next 15 years.
Earlier this month, small island developing states added their voices with the adoption of the Samoa Pathway, a far-reaching plan for addressing their unique vulnerabilities.
Two days ago in this Hall, we heard the appeals of the world’s indigenous peoples for an end to marginalization.
That same day, world leaders reaffirmed the importance of continuing to implement the ground-breaking consensus of the Cairo conference on population and development.
The conversation for the future we want has been one of the most inclusive efforts in United Nations history. More than five million people have now voted in the My World survey. I encourage millions more to log on and chime in.
What is emerging from our dialogue is remarkable in its vision: a universal agenda, applying to all countries; and a determination not to reduce but eradicate extreme poverty and hunger, and to put all countries and communities on the path of truly sustainable development.
The Open Working Group of the General Assembly has placed before us a proposed set of Sustainable Development Goals that will help us to complete the unfinished business of the MDGs, overcome inequalities, protect the planet and build the future we want. At the end of the year, at your request, I will provide a synthesis report that will set the stage as Member States begin their negotiations.
Transformation is our goal. I can think of no better place to start than with opening doors and shattering ceilings for women and girls. Stereotypes continue to be deeply entrenched. Look at any crisis -- from poverty to disaster to disease to illiteracy -- and you will see women and girls suffering the most. We cannot fulfil 100 per cent of the world’s potential by excluding 50 per cent of the world’s people.
Climate action is integral to all our hopes. Three days ago in the streets of our host city, New York, I joined hundreds of thousands of people in marching for a cleaner, greener future. They sent a powerful message to the leaders -- of their impatience but also of opportunity.
Yesterday’s Climate Summit was a landmark event. We saw a great coming together of countries, capital, CEOs and citizens. Multi-stakeholder coalitions took unprecedented action to reduce emissions, build resilience, and finance the transformation of our economies and societies. We must convert this momentum into a meaningful, universal climate agreement in Lima this December and in Paris next year. As one of the banners in the march said, we have a duty to “do what must be done”.
Funding is crucial for the credibility of the climate and post-2015 development efforts. Now is the time to more properly match global wealth with global need. All resources, public and private, domestic and international, need to be tapped. When budgets are cut to the bone, people bleed. When resources are devoted to ever more sophisticated arms instead of ever greater human potential, we are all less secure.
Leadership is also about getting our priorities straight, our policies right, and our investments working for people. The next 15 months will be a defining period for global prosperity and stability. I urge you to keep your ambitions high.
The outbreak of Ebola in West Africa is an unprecedented crisis. That is why I have established an unprecedented health operation -- the United Nations Mission for Ebola Emergency Response -- to mobilize all the resources needed to reinforce the work being done by the countries and communities affected.
The mission combines the expertise of the World Health Organization with the logistical capacities of the United Nations. UNMEER personnel arrived in Ghana two days ago to establish the Mission’s headquarters. The international community is rallying to assist local health workers.
Now we need a twenty-fold surge in care, tracking, transport and equipment. Food security is a growing concern, as food prices have gone up and food systems are in danger of breaking down.
We must also fight the virus of fear and misinformation. Bans on travel or transport will not keep Ebola from getting out, but will keep medical personnel and supplies from getting in. We need to isolate people affected by Ebola – but not the nations struggling to cope with it.
With leadership and solidarity, we can help the people of Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone bring the outbreak to an end and regain the path to a better future.
The world recently marked the 100th anniversary of the outbreak of the First World War.
Like so many conflicts, that war started less from grand design than from small problems badly handled.
After the Second World War, the founding of the United Nations was a feat of global resolve. The post-war planners were driven not only by the idea of “never again”, but by a vision of what the world could be if we “unite our strength”.
Today, we face a profusion of mounting challenges. People are crying out for protection from greed and inequality. The United Nations must answer that call.
We are a century removed from the First World War, and have 70 years of experience with the United Nations. Yet the world is still not as peaceful as it could and as it should be.
Today we face far more man-made crises than natural calamities. We may not control Mother Nature, but who else but us is responsible for securing peace and justice in our world?
War. Poverty. Ignorance. Crises caused by people can be stopped by people.
I do not think we can yet feel comfortable about the world our generation is leaving to our children.
Still, I have hope. I draw it from our Charter, our enduring guide in times of dramatic challenge and change.
I am continually inspired by the staff, peacekeepers, humanitarian workers, human rights defenders and others who bring our document, this Charter, to life.
Just as we have renovated this great Hall for a new age, I look to you, Excellencies, Distinguished Heads of State and Government, to rebuild leadership and restore unity of purpose. We can tackle any challenge – and we will, as united nations.
I thank you for your leadership. Thank you very much.

28 September 2015
The 70th session of the General Assembly has opened with a towering achievement: the adoption of the 2030 Agenda, including 17 inspiring Sustainable Development Goals, the SDGs.
Our aim is clear. Our mission is possible. And our destination is in our sights: an end to extreme poverty by 2030; a life of peace and dignity for all.
What counts now is translating promises on paper into change on the ground.
We owe this and much more to the vulnerable, the oppressed, the displaced and the forgotten people in our world.
We owe this to a world where inequality is growing, trust is fading, and impatience with leadership can be seen and felt far and wide.
We owe this to “succeeding generations”, in the memorable words the Charter.
In this year in which we mark the 70th anniversary of the United Nations, we must heed the call of the Charter, and hear the voices of “we the peoples”. That is how we can overcome the grim realities of the present -- and seize the remarkable opportunities of our era.
The Millennium Development Goals made poverty history for hundreds of millions of people.
Now we are poised to continue the job while reaching higher, broader and deeper.
The new framework does not just add goals. It weaves the goals together, with human rights, the rule of law and women’s empowerment as crucial parts of an integrated whole.
The global goals are universal.
You, the world’s leaders, have committed to leave no one behind -- and to reach those farthest behind, first.
We can build on the momentum this December in Paris with a robust agreement on climate change.
Remarkable changes are under way to reduce harmful greenhouse emissions. I have seen and visited vast solar power installations bringing a new energy future into being. There is wind in the sails of climate action.
Yet it is clear that the national targets submitted by the member states will not be enough. We face a choice: either raise ambition -- or risk raising temperatures above the 2-degree Celsius threshold, which science tells us we must not cross.
Reaching our sustainable development goals means organizing ourselves better. Let there be no more walls or boxes; no more ministries or agencies working at cross-purposes. Let us move from silos to synergy, supported by data, long-term planning and a will to do things differently.
Financing will be a key test.
I welcome the Addis Ababa Action Agenda, and the renewed pledge by developed countries to invest 0.7 per cent of gross national income in official development assistance. Aid works -- but few countries have met this target. I salute those that have, and urge others to follow their example.
Climate finance will be crucial. I urge developed countries to meet the agreed goal of $100 billion per year by 2020. We must also get the Green Climate Fund up and running.
The world continues to squander trillions in wasteful military spending. Why is it easier to find the money to destroy people and planet than it is to protect them?
Succeeding generations depend on us to finally get our priorities right.
Suffering today is at heights not seen in a generation. One hundred million people require immediate humanitarian assistance. At least 60 million people have been forced to flee their homes or their countries. The United Nations has asked for nearly $20 billion to meet this year’s needs – six times the level of a decade ago.
UN humanitarian agencies and our partners are braving difficult conditions to reach people.
Member States have been generous, but demands continue to dwarf funding.
The World Humanitarian Summit in May 2016 in Istanbul is a critical moment to reaffirm solidarity and explore how to better build resilience and address emergencies.
But the global humanitarian system is not broken; it is broke.
We are not receiving enough money to save enough lives.
We have about half of what we need to help the people of Iraq, South Sudan and Yemen – and just a third for Syria.
Our response plan for Ukraine is just 39 per cent funded.
And the appeal for Gambia, where one in four children suffers from stunting, has been met with silence.
Numbers this low raise suffering to new highs.
People need emergency assistance, but what they want even more is lasting solutions. They may appreciate a tent, but they deserve to go home.
Our aim is not just to keep people alive, but to give them a life -- a decent life.
Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey are generously hosting several million Syrian and Iraqi refugees. Countries across the developing world continue to host and receive large numbers of refugees despite their own limited means.
People are on the move as never before, in the Americas and the Sahel, in the Mediterranean and Andaman Seas.
These flows raise complex issues, and rouse strong passions.
Certain touchstones must guide our response: international law, human rights, basic compassion.
All countries need to do more to shoulder their responsibilities.
I commend those in Europe that are upholding the Union’s values and providing asylum.
At the same time, I urge Europe to do more. After the Second World War, it was Europeans seeking the world’s assistance.
I will convene a high-level meeting on September 30, the day after tomorrow, aimed at promoting a comprehensive approach to the refugee and migration crisis.
We must crack down on traffickers and address the pressures being faced by countries of destination.
We must combat discrimination. In the 21st century, we should not be building fences or walls.
But above all, we must look at root causes in countries of origin.
Syrians are leaving their country and their homes because of oppression, extremism, destruction and fear.
Four years of diplomatic paralysis by the Security Council and others have allowed the crisis to spin out of control.
The responsibility for ending the conflict lies first and foremost with the Syrian warring parties. They are the ones turning their country to ruins.
But it is not enough to look only within Syria for a solution. The battle is also being driven by regional powers and rivalries. Weapons and money flowing into the country are fuelling the fire.
My Special Envoy is doing everything he can to forge the basis for a peaceful settlement.
It is time now for others, primarily the Security Council and key regional actors, to step forward.
Five countries in particular hold the key: the Russian Federation, the United States, Saudi Arabia, Iran and Turkey. But as long as one side will not compromise with the other, it is futile to expect change on the ground.
Innocent Syrians pay the price of more barrel bombs and terrorism. There must be no impunity for atrocious crimes. Our commitment to justice should lead us to refer the situation to the International Criminal Court.
In Yemen, 21 million people -- 80 per cent of the population -- need humanitarian assistance.
All sides are showing disregard for human life – but most of the casualties are being caused by air-strikes. I call for an end to the bombings, which are also destroying Yemeni cities, infrastructure and heritage.
Here, too, the proxy battles of others are driving the fighting. I once again urge the parties to return to the table, negotiate in good faith and resolve this crisis through dialogue facilitated by my Special Envoy. Let me be clear: There is no military solution to this conflict.
We must also guard against the dangerous drift in the Middle East Peace Process. With settlements expanding and incitement and provocations on the rise, it is essential for Israelis and Palestinians to re-engage – and for the international community to pressure the parties to do so. The world can no longer wait for leaders to finally choose a path to peace.
Da’esh, Boko Haram and Al-Shabab remain major threats, especially to the women and girls who have been systematically targeted. The world must unite against the blatant brutality of these groups. We must also counter the exclusion and hopelessness on which extremists feed. Moreover, States must never violate human rights in the fight against terror; such abuses only perpetuate the cycle.
Early next year, I will present to the General Assembly a comprehensive plan of action on how to counter violent extremism and terrorism.
I commend the landmark nuclear agreement between the Islamic Republic of Iran and the P5+1 countries. Dialogue and patient diplomacy have paid dividends. I hope this spirit of solidarity among the Permanent Members of the Security Council can be demonstrated in other conflict areas, such as Syria, Yemen and Ukraine.
Let us build on the recent agreements in South Sudan, finalize the agreement in Libya, and spare those countries further suffering.
Now is the time for renewed dialogue to address continuing tension on the Korean peninsula. I call on the parties to refrain from taking any action that may increase mistrust, and urge them to instead promote reconciliation and efforts towards a peaceful, de-nuclearized peninsula. I am ready to support inter-Korean cooperation. We also need to step up our work for the well-being of the people of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
I am deeply troubled by growing restrictions on media freedoms and civil society across the world. It is not a crime for journalists, human rights defenders and others to exercise their basic rights. We must preserve the space for civil society and the press to do their vital work without fear of attack and imprisonment.
Democratic backsliding is a threat in too many places, as leaders seek to stay in office beyond their mandated limits. We see rallies and petitions being engineered to look like the spontaneous will of the people. Those manufactured groundswells of support only lay the groundwork for instability. I urge leaders to abide by the constitutional limits on their terms.
Collectively, these crises have stretched to the limits our vital tools for conflict resolution and humanitarian response.
Earlier this month, I put forward my vision for strengthening UN peace operations, building on the recommendations of an independent panel.
Our peacekeeping and political missions need enhanced capabilities and clear objectives.
We need a renewed commitment to prevention, stronger regional partnerships, and sustained engagement on peacebuilding.
And we must unlock the potential of women to advance peace, as envisaged in Security Council resolution 1325.
I hope the General Assembly will take early action as a signal of its commitment to this effort.
People today, and succeeding generations, need us to make the most of this rare opportunity for comprehensive progress.
Founded in a fractured world, the United Nations brought hope that collective action could avoid another global catastrophe.
Over the past 70 years, we have helped to liberate millions of people from colonialism and supported the successful struggle against apartheid. We have defeated deadly diseases, defended human rights and deepened the rule of law.
This and more we have done – but that is far from enough.
We are living through a time of severe test -- but also one of great opportunity.
Today, we are more connected than ever, better informed than ever, and have better tools than ever. The recipes for positive change are on the table; the ingredients for success are in our hands.
We continue to reform the United Nations -- although we know we must do much more, both managerially and politically.
We can draw strength from the empowerment of women -- but we still need to step it up for gender equality on the way to Planet 50/50.
I am inspired by the world’s young people, who make up half the world’s population -- and whose voices we must integrate more fully in decision-making everywhere.
And I am impressed with the way we, all of us, can unite behind vital causes -- like the 2030 Development Agenda.
One year ago, when we gathered for the general debate, the Ebola crisis in West Africa was claiming lives daily. Families were being devastated. Fear was rife. Forecasts suggested frightening losses in the months ahead.
Today, thanks to collective action by communities and their governments and others all around the world, cases of Ebola have declined dramatically. The outbreak is not over, and we must remain vigilant. But the response is working, with lessons pointing to a safer future for all.
When we stand together, there is no limit to what we can achieve.
Three days ago, young people from many nations stood together in the balcony of this Hall. They asked for one thing above all: change.
There is nothing we can say to the world’s children that can convince them the world needs to be the way it is.
That means we must do everything we can to close the gap between the world as it is, and the world as it should be. That is the mission of the United Nations.
Let’s work together to make this world better for all, where everybody can live with dignity and prosperity.
I thank you for your leadership.

20 September 2016
I stand before you with gratitude for your support across the decade I have had the privilege to serve this great organization, the United Nations.
In taking the oath of office in December 2006, I pledged to work with you for “we the peoples”.
With the Charter as our guide, and the dedication of the staff, we have achieved much together.
I also stand before you with deep concern.
Gulfs of mistrust divide citizens from their leaders.  Extremists push people into camps of “us” and “them”.  The Earth assails us with rising seas, record heat and extreme storms.  And danger defines the days of many.
One hundred and thirty million people need life-saving assistance.  Tens of millions of them are children and young people -- our next generation already at risk.
Yet after ten years in office, I am more convinced than ever that we have the power to end war, poverty and persecution.  We have the means to prevent conflict.  We have the potential to close the gap between rich and poor, and to make rights real in people’s lives.
With the Sustainable Development Goals, we have a manifesto for a better future.
With the Paris Agreement on climate change, we are tackling the defining challenge of our time.
We have no time to lose.  I urge you, leaders, to bring the Paris Agreement into force before the end of this year.  We need just 26 countries more, representing just 15 per cent of greenhouse gas emissions. 
I ask you to help lead us to a world of low-carbon growth, increased resilience and greater opportunity and well-being for our children.
These great gains are threatened by grave security threats.
Armed conflicts have grown more protracted and complex.  Governance failures have pushed societies past the brink.  Radicalization has threatened social cohesion – precisely the response that violent extremists seek and welcome.
The tragic consequences are on brutal display from Yemen to Libya and Iraq, from Afghanistan to the Sahel and the Lake Chad Basin.
In today’s world, the conflict in Syria is taking the greatest number of lives and sowing the widest instability.  There is no military solution.  Many groups have killed many innocents – but none more so than the Government of Syria, which continues to barrel bomb neighbourhoods and systematically torture thousands of detainees.  Powerful patrons that keep feeding the war machine also have blood on their hands.  Present in this Hall today are representatives of governments that have ignored, facilitated, funded, participated in or even planned and carried out atrocities inflicted by all sides of the Syria conflict against Syrian civilians.
Just when we think it cannot get any worse, the bar of depravity sinks lower. Yesterday’s sickening, savage, and apparently deliberate attack on a UN-Syrian Arab Red Crescent aid convoy is the latest example.
The United Nations has been forced to suspend aid convoys as a result of this outrage. 
The humanitarians delivering life-saving aid were heroes. Those who bombed them were cowards.
Accountability for crimes such as these is essential.
I appeal to all those with influence to end the fighting and get talks started. A political transition is long overdue.  After so much violence and misrule, the future of Syria should not rest on the fate of a single man.
One year ago, Palestine proudly raised its flag at UN Headquarters.  Yet the prospects for a two-state solution are being lowered by the day.  All the while, the occupation grinds into its 50th year.
As a friend of both the Israeli and Palestinian peoples, it pains me that this past decade has been ten years lost to peace.  Ten years lost to illegal settlement expansion.  Ten years lost to intra-Palestinian divide, growing polarization and hopelessness.
This is madness.  Replacing a two-state solution with a one-state construct would spell doom: denying Palestinians their freedom and rightful future, and pushing Israel further from its vision of a Jewish democracy towards greater global isolation.
On the Korean Peninsula, the fifth nuclear test by the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea has again threatened regional and international security.  Meanwhile, the people’s suffering and plight are worsening. I urge the leaders of the DPRK to change course and fulfil their obligations – to their own people and to the family of nations.
In Ukraine, the violence has caused an internal upheaval, renewed tensions across Europe and rekindled geopolitical rivalries.
In South Sudan, leaders have also betrayed their people. 
Indeed, in too many places, we see leaders rewriting constitutions, manipulating elections and taking other desperate steps to cling to power. 
Leaders must understand that holding office is a trust, granted by the people, not personal property. 
My message to all is clear: serve your people.  Do not subvert democracy; do not pilfer your country’s resources; do not imprison and torture your critics.
Yesterday we made great progress in helping people find a haven from conflict and tyranny. 
The New York Declaration on Refugees and Migrants points the way toward saving lives and protecting the rights of millions of people.  We all must meet those promises. 
All too often, refugees and migrants face hatred.  Muslims in particular are being targeted by stereotyping and suspicion that have haunting echoes of the dark past.  I say to political leaders and candidates:  do not engage in the cynical and dangerous political math that says you add votes by dividing people and multiplying fear.  The world must stand up against lies and distortions of truth, and reject all forms of discrimination.
We must also address the factors that compel people to move.  That means investing in conflict prevention and engaging in patient diplomacy.  And as the demand for peacekeeping rises, we must continue strengthening peace operations to help countries secure and sustain peace.  I am encouraged that the General Assembly has endorsed the Plan of Action to Prevent Violent Extremism, which can help us tackle the drivers of conflict. 
In Myanmar, the transition has entered a promising new phase. In Sri Lanka, post-war healing efforts have deepened.  In both countries, true reconciliation rests on ensuring that all communities, minorities and majorities alike, are included in building a new union.
Next Monday, I will travel to Colombia for the signing of a peace agreement to end one of the world’s longest-running armed conflicts.  The United Nations will support the Colombian people every step of the way. 
There is also encouraging movements towards an agreement on Cyprus.
Let us all support the progress and solutions that may now be at hand.
Je saisis cette occasion pour exprimer mes regrets au sujet de deux situations qui ont terni la réputation de l'Organisation et, pire encore, traumatisé les nombreuses populations que nous servons.
Premièrement, les actes odieux d'exploitation et de violence sexuelles commis par certains soldats de la paix et d'autres membres du personnel des Nations Unies ont aggravé les souffrances de populations déjà prises dans un conflit armé et sapé les efforts accomplis par tant d'autres agents de l’ONU dans le monde. Les protecteurs ne doivent jamais devenir des prédateurs. Les États Membres et le Secrétariat doivent redoubler d’efforts pour faire appliquer et renforcer la politique de tolérance zéro de l'Organisation.
Deuxièmement, Haïti a cumulé les épreuves : peu après un tremblement de terre dévastateur, le pays a été frappé par une épidémie de choléra. J'ai beaucoup de regret et de peine face aux terribles souffrances du peuple haïtien affecté par le choléra. Une nouvelle stratégie s'impose pour atténuer sa détresse et améliorer ses conditions de vie. Nous sommes fermement résolus à nous acquitter durablement de cette responsabilité morale.
Nous élaborons actuellement un ensemble de mesures d'assistance pour les personnes les plus directement touchées et redoublons d'efforts pour établir de solides systèmes d'approvisionnement en eau, d'assainissement et de santé, qui sont la meilleure défense à long terme contre les maladies. Nous n'y parviendrons qu'avec l'appui politique et financier sans faille des États Membres.
Je vous donnerai plus tard des précisions sur cette stratégie. Unissons nos efforts pour honorer nos obligations envers le peuple haïtien.
Allow me to briefly touch on a few other areas that I hope will long remain priorities of the United Nations.
I am proud that UN Women came to life during my tenure.  It is now our established champion of gender equality and empowerment, aiming for a “50-50 planet”.  I have appointed more women to senior positions at the United Nations than ever before -- and I am proud to call myself a feminist. 
Women hold up half the sky and are essential to meeting all our goals. 
I have been saying that the least utilized resource in our world is the potential for women.
So we must do far more to end deep-seated discrimination and chronic violence against women, to advance their participation in decision-making, and to ensure that every girl gets the start in life she deserves.
I have been a proud defender of the rights of all people, regardless of ethnicity, religion or sexual orientation. 
Our human rights machinery – along with the Human Rights up Front initiative -- is placing human rights at the centre.  Human rights are the pillars of society -- and the antidotes to violent extremism and civic despair.
We have deepened support for the Responsibility to Protect.  We have made inroads against the death penalty.  Landmark convictions by the International Criminal Court and other bodies have advanced accountability -- but we still must do far more to prevent genocide and other atrocity crimes.
Civil society is essential for all of these efforts.
I ask all of you to join me today in saying “yes” to greater space for civil society and independent media, and “no” to cracking down on the freedoms of assembly and expression. 
Ces dix dernières années nous avons réalisé de grands progrès dans les domaines de l’éducation et de la santé.
Nous avons pratiquement éradiqué la polio. De plus en plus de femmes survivent à l’accouchement. Davantage d’enfants sont scolarisés et vivent plus longtemps, dans de meilleures conditions. Les mesures que nous avons prises ensemble pour contenir l’épidémie d’Ebola nous ont préparés à de futures urgences sanitaires. Les travaux du groupement tactique mondial sur la santé nous rappellent que la vigilance s’impose bien avant que les pandémies fassent la une des journaux.
La maîtrise des armes meurtrières a progressé grâce à la Convention sur les armes à sous-munitions et au Traité sur le commerce des armes, ainsi qu’à l’action efficace menée contre les armes chimiques. Nous devons tirer parti de cet élan pour nous rapprocher de l’objectif ultime : éliminer les armes nucléaires une fois pour toutes.
Le Sommet mondial sur l’action humanitaire a permis de renforcer les opérations de secours pour s’orienter vers la prévention et la résilience, ainsi que la réduction des besoins.
Nous tirons parti, comme jamais auparavant, de l’énergie des jeunes, notamment grâce à l’action de mon tout premier Envoyé pour la jeunesse et du nouvel Envoyé spécial sur l’emploi des jeunes.
Les partenariats avec le secteur privé se sont multipliés : nous encourageons les entreprises à adopter des pratiques responsables qui soient les meilleures pour la société et le monde.
Nous avons aussi fait de grands progrès pour ce qui est d’adapter et de réformer l’Organisation aux réalités du XXIe siècle.
Continued progress will require new heights of solidarity. 
Sometimes we are our own worst enemies.  Member States have still not agreed on a formula for reform of the Security Council -- a continuing risk to its effectiveness and legitimacy. 
In the same spirit, I want to put on the table today a major and much needed reform for fairness  and effectiveness in the United Nations.  
Far too often, I have seen widely-supported proposals blocked, in the name of consensus, by a few or sometimes even just one country.  
We see this being done by large and small countries alike.
Time and again, I have seen essential action and good ideas blocked in the Security Council. Blocked in the General Assembly.  Blocked in the budget process, blocked in the Conference on Disarmament and other bodies.  
Is it fair in this complicated 21st century for any one country or few countries to yield such disproportionate power, and hold the world hostage on so many important issues?
Consensus should not be confused with unanimity.  The global public is right to ask whether this is how an organization in which we have invested so much hope and aspirations should function.
I propose, Mr. President, that you explore, with my successor, the establishment of a high-level panel to find practical solutions that will improve decision-making at the United Nations. 
States must also respect the independence of the Secretariat, in accordance with the Charter.
When our reports say what needs to be said, Member States should not try and rewrite history.
When our human rights personnel act on behalf of the most vulnerable, Member States should not block their path.
When our humanitarian workers need to reach populations under siege, Member States should remove all obstacles.
And when our envoys and personnel raise difficult issues, Member States should not ostracize them or threaten to banish them from the country.
We must all be open and accountable to the people we serve.
There is one last measure of the change that has defined the past decade.
It is hard to believe, but when I took office, a smart phone like this had not even been introduced to the world. 
Today it is a lifeline and, perhaps at times, the bane of our existence!
It is an indispensable part of our lives. 
Our phones and social media have connected the world in ways that were unimaginable when I took office.  Yes, they have been abused by extremists and hate groups.  But they have also created a world of new communities and opportunities.
For me, it is all a reminder of the power of individuals to change the world. 
After all, people power helped make the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development the most inclusive development process of our time.  People power mobilized millions to push leaders to take climate action. 
People power is what I have seen in every corner of the world this past decade. 
People like Rebecca Johnson, a nurse I met in Sierra Leone who contracted Ebola, recovered and then rushed and risked her life again to save her community. 
People like Yusra Mardini, the Syrian teen swimmer who pushed her damaged refugee boat to safety and then went on to compete in the Rio Olympic Games.
And, of course, people like young Malala Yousafzai, who came to the United Nations and showed us all how one book, one pen and one person can make a difference.
A perfect world may be on the far horizon.
But a route to a better world, a safer world, a more just world, is in each and every one of us.
Ten years on, I know that working together, working united, we can get there. I count on your leadership and commitment.
Thank you very much.

