If not public housing or Section 8, the main difficultly in cost.  Most client live at or below the poverty level and do not have the means to afford rent or a mortgage.  The reasons have been discussed through out this report, but include: not enough English proficiency to get a high paying job or got to school to get a high education,  as a single parent - little time between work and caring for young children, even with childcare.
People with disabilities who are using AGENCY NAME services often have lives with many challenges, including health, income, and housing stability. These are, of course, quite interlinked matters. So simply getting to a program such as AGENCY NAME, where mentoring and service coordination can help stabilize a situation, is a challenge for the thousands at risk of becoming homeless. Often, as well, the request for assistance may only come when eviction is imminent, reducing the ability to develop long-term solutions.
We have encountered two common individual-level challenges to helping those at high risk of eviction remain housed. First, when the landlord is not willing to negotiate either with the housing coordinator or the tenant for back payment of rent and remains inflexible, there is often little one can do to help the person remain housed in their current home. When this happens, we often try to work with the landlord to agree to allow the tenant to remain in the home while we try to locate alternative housing, thereby avoiding homelessness. Second, sometimes a referral to our Program is made "too late", e.g. when a writ of summary process is in place and the tenant calls within a few days of the execution or the household is in extreme arrears, and/or there are other circumstances impeding their ability to remain in the household like legal issues, substance abuse, etc. When this occurs, we do our best to locate alternative housing or help the tenant find temporary housing to avoid being on the street.
Mental health issues, addictions and lack of education/marketable employment skills make obtaining and remaining in permanent, affordable housing very challenging for many of the individuals that AGENCY NAME works with.
In terms of obtaining permanent and affordable housing, many adults and entire households face the following challenges:     1.  A lack of low income and affordable housing in the Greater Boston Area   2.  Insufficient income and the ability to gain and secure a job to sustain a market rate apartment  3.  Issues concerning CORI reports  4.  Outstanding credit issues   5.  Becoming unemployed and/or the inability to keep a job   6.  Financial issues pertaining to debt  7.  Personal and family issues involving substance abuse, domestic violence, and mental health disorders
In terms of homeless obtaining affordable housing, three challenges come to mind: (1) homeless getting information on available housing and open waitlists, preferably from a regionally centralized, comprehensive, and easily accessible online list (which does not exist); (2) the low supply of affordable housing; and (3) the slow turnover of affordable units resulting in limited availability of units for new applicants.  In terms of remaining in housing, the most common challenge is income instability. The inability to obtain a stable, long term income and/or the loss of existing stability due to unforeseen life events (job loss, medical expenses, etc.) results in the perennial "one step forward, two steps back" phenomenon.  Also, as mentioned elsewhere, our service area is experiencing the effects of gentrification which have resulted in increased rents without an accompanying increase in income for many residents. This, naturally, makes it very difficult for individuals to both obtain and maintain housing.
Working wages are not enough to sustain housing or find affordable housing in the Seacoast area.  It is a 2 percent rental market and landlords will tend to rent to individuals who have more income double the rent amount. In addition, the section 8 market is highly competitive and less and less landlords are taking vouchers.
In providing legal services for some individuals with disabilities in housing cases, it can be difficult to get past the personal issues and breakdown in communications with the housing staff and officials. This is what makes it difficult for a lot of attorneys to accept these cases.
1) We've seen a significant increase in the number of senior citizens in and around Boston who are experiencing difficulties keeping up with the financial responsibilities that come with their home. These homeowners are generally on fixed incomes that often leave them unable to address matters such as mortgage payments and property taxes. Many are unable to even address basic medical needs due to costs. In light of this development, our foreclosure prevention counselor has taken the steps necessary to become a HUD approved HECM counselor so that we can better address the needs of these vulnerable senior homeowners.    2)) Our typical client tends to fall into the low to moderate income range. As such, they are usually behind the curve in terms of recognizing benefits of an economic upturn and have little or no room for error in terms of their finances. For example, a client who misses one month's rent/mortgage for any reason, they have virtually no chance of "catching up" without some assistance.
As we noted in the previous performance measure "Housing the Homeless" , the most significant issue faced by families once housed is affording their apartment after the HomeBASE subsidy ends. Many families face significant educational barriers to employment ( lack of a high school diploma, limited job experience). Emmaus supports parents once rehoused to access job training, GED classes, ESOL classes and other resources to enhance their skills and increase their incomes to remain stably housed.  We also assist families to access public and private cash resources to meet daily needs for food, heat and medical care.
drug addictions  - lack of life skills , unable to be social enough to get along/understand and resolve day-to-day problems, poor self care  - low education
The most significant obstacle our families face to obtaining and retaining permanent housing remains  the high and rapidly rising cost of housing in the Greater Boston area, which has greatly outpaced  wage growth. Housing subsidies are in high demand with long waiting lists. Many working families in  market-rate apartments are spending the majority of their income on housing. Any unexpected  expense can cause them to fall behind on their rent.    Many of our working families have jobs that provide inconsistent income. Hourly workers often cannot  rely on a set schedule or number of hours and, unlike salaried workers, time missed due to illness or  other unforeseen problems means lost wages.    There is also a subset of our families who face social and emotional barriers to remaining stable in  housing including mental health and cognitive challenges. These families benefit particularly from  AGENCY NAME's comprehensive social services, as each family has a dedicated case manager  who provides clinical counseling and helps the family manage their challenges and identify resources that will help them.
Some adults and their households who are eligible to receive services from AGENCY NAME to help them remain in permanent, affordable housing, are turned away because AGENCY NAME does not have the staff capacity to provide them with services.  Also, low-­income tenants and their families have been subject to aggressive eviction actions by major housing management companies for minor violations.  Some tenants in affordable housing are faced with rent increases they cannot afford after speculators buy the foreclosed properties in which they live, with the goal of evicting low­-income tenants so they can charge new tenants more for rent.
The lack of availability of affordable housing units makes it difficult for families to stay within their budgets for living expenses.   Demand far exceeds supply in Greater Lawrence. Any time there is a disruption in their lives that involves an expenditure (high heating bills in extremely cold winters, unexpected medical expense, etc) clients are susceptible to deviating from their budgets and more prone to losing permanent, affordable housing.  Many of our families depend on government subsidies for their household incomes.  Many of these incomes are below the average rent for local properties.  Rents range from $900 for one bedroom to $1500 for three bedrooms.  Social security disability ranges from $550 to $790 for an individual.
For families and individuals facing non-payment eviction, one of the greatest obstacles to being able to maintain their housing is a lack of access to legal counsel. Each year in housing court, more than 90% of all landlords are represented by legal counsel and more than 90% of tenants have no representation. AGENCY NAME's Homelessness Prevention Program services can provide case management, mediation and rental assistance, but too often a household only contacts us after they have been strong-armed by their landlord's attorney into waiving real and substantial legal claims and signing an unaffordable and unsustainable rent repayment agreement. With very minimal involvement of legal counsel (even just a consultation with a lawyer to file answer and discovery in response to a summons and complaint), the case management services that HomeStart provides can make a significantly greater impact and are more likely to achieve a positive outcome for the at-risk household.
Families facing eviction commonly have experienced job loss or have limited access to employment that pays a living wage. AGENCY NAME works with chronically homeless families, who often have histories of domestic violence or disabilities. The agency also works with families who are living on a limited budget, and therefore an unexpected car repair or medical bill can put them at risk of rental or utility arrears.
Each case is different from the last as individuals have their own financial challenges. Individuals need to have their own motivation to work through all the details of the process and be open to receiving coaching.
There are several individual-level challenges that make it difficult for households served to receive services as intended and remain in permanent affordable housing.  As mentioned previously, sometimes clients do not keep in communication with advocates due to phones being disconnected and lack of a reliable mailing address.  In addition, though advocates engage in constant outreach to reach people who are just starting to experience housing instability, there are times when the clients’ housing crisis has already escalated beyond repair by the time they reach out to an advocate.  The goal is always to reach clients in the earliest stages in housing instability but some tenants don’t reach out until the absolute last minute when their crisis is beyond repair.  At that late stage, sometimes the only option is to seek temporary housing with family and friends or, if that is not possible, to apply for emergency shelter.  Some households are beyond the point of prevention by the time they reach out to an advocate so they are guided through the emergency shelter application process instead.
1. RE retaining housing: For our Foreclosure Prevention programming, the new Foreclosure Petition numbers rose over the last 12 months in our targeted communities (per 'The Warren Group', 2/2/16: "Auctions rose 25.2 percent; deeds rose 21.4 percent in 2015"). In addition, we are now seeing families who had their mortgages modified five years ago, but who now are coming back for help, as they cannot afford the reset mortgage payments on their family homes.  2. Re both retaining and obtaining housing: For our Rental Housing programming, 'gentrification' and the ever escalating cost of area rents is the most significant challenge to our clients; esp. when coupled with the low-vacancy rates (which the high number of college students and a lack of dormitory space in Boston only makes worse).  3. Re obtaining: Also for Rental Housing programming clients, additional challenges include: A. long (five-year+) wait-lists for BHA units and other public housing and Section 8 certificates; and B. rules which make it difficult to negotiate the official 'systems' in place. In just one instance this year, over six months ago, with the City and another partner, we have been working to find housing for clients living in a temporary shelter in the basement of the East Boston Lutheran Church, which is where AGENCY NAME spent its formative years. These clients became homeless as a result of a building collapse situation in East Boston. (AGENCY NAME is one of two agencies with social service contracts with the City of Boston DND to serve Boston residents needing homes due to an emergency situation.) As of our mid-year report, we had one more client/family left at the Shelter. Six months ago, our counselor took the client to the DTA Office in Chelsea, where her application was denied, after they waited over four hours to be seen. They were rejected by DTA for an MBPH pilot family program for a BHA unit because her daughter lives at college now rather than staying at the homeless shelter with her mother; despite the fact that the daughter had been living at home when the building collapse happened. Too often we see that the 'system' seems to require stays at homeless shelters to obtain benefits, discouraging individuals from finding temporary solutions on their own to homelessness situations while waiting for a permanent, affordable unit. We are sorry to report that this one client is still living at the Church, due to a variety of circumstances, including having no income, and not wanting to move to a typical Shelter situation.     4. For some half of our clients, the fact that they are Hispanic, and often don't speak English well or at all, coupled with the fact that they have low incomes, is one of the most common individual level challenges that families face. To help combat this, AGENCY NAME offers both ESOL and Financial Capability programming - funded by United Way. Thank you!
Many of our clients have mental and physical impairments which can make it difficult for them to receive services.  Clients with mental disabilities who exhibit challenging behaviors sometimes struggle to  comply with their treatment plans and take their medication consistently.  This can make it difficult for them to comply with agreements we may help negotiate with their landlords.  We do our best to wrap the client with services, but this does not always work.
Common individual obstacles for recipients of services from HRS include untreated psychiatric illness, substance use disorder, accessibility issues, individual CORIs, negative credit reports,  very low incomes, prior just-cause evictions, making housing placement difficult.     Challenges for HRS clients to remain in permanent housing  include untreated psychiatric illness, substance use disorder, financial mismanagement.
Given their limited incomes, most of the families we work with are under a great deal of stress and must make difficult spending decisions. As a result, many families—even those living in subsidized housing—struggle to pay their rent on time each month. We find that health problems (including mental health issues), sudden loss of employment or benefits, and unforeseen expenses are some of the most common triggers for falling behind on rent.
The most common challenge is paying the extremely high rents in the area on the salaries received by the low and middle income families we serve. Even when working full-time (and more) they are unable to sustain their rents. The need for affordable housing is significant, most particularly subsidized housing, but the waiting lists are years long, making affordable housing a future possibility, not a current solution. Yet even those who have housing subsidies are having difficulties finding units that meet the low rental cap placed by the subsidy programs.
The most common individual-level challenge noticed throughout the year would be access and affordability of substance abuse services in our community. Many of the clients served have co-occurring mental health and substance abuse disorders and it's extremely important to have quick, affordable access to substance abuse services close by.
We are finding that many families lack the ability to properly budget, are unable to identify an affordable housing range for their financial circumstances, and practice poor or unrealistic financial habits.  Many times we see households who are in debt with rent-to-own obligations, payday and title loans, and other high-interest credit which does not leave enough in their budget to afford the housing they are in, causing them to get behind and face eviction. Not prioritizing their spending also is a common factor among the families applying for our assistance.  For example, the desire for an expensive car outweighs the realization that they cannot afford the car payment and stay up with their basic needs expenses.  Added to lack of affordable housing in the community. these financial habits make it difficult for some families to stay housed and they have a record of several evictions in their background, which in turn limits their housing options.
The biggest challenge would be for those households who receive a one time financial payment to prevent eviction keeping them engaged in the services after their emergency has been resolved
Challenges contributing to individual/families receiving services intended to obtain and remain in permanent, affordable housing include lack of available rental units, lack of transportation and a clear path to all supports and a lack of case management resources and having to rely on service providers to cross agency lines and communicate in re: clients.     Of the two, obtaining or remaining in permanent housing, it's remaining that presents the largest obstacle. This argument also applies to those who successfully make it through the Individual Development Account (IDA). Most often it's the acquiring of housing that proves less challenging. How to manage services, time, and resources is what most often creates the difficulties.     Once housed the client/family most often isn't aware of what it takes in terms of financial outlay to stay housed. Bill paying, and in the case of home owners maintenance and upkeep, haven't been taken into consideration and not factored into the calculus of day to day living and what it means to finances. Providing education, front loaded, before homes/apartments are acquired is a significant element that can contribute to a successful transition.
There are no challenges or any difficulties for households to receive services from AGENCY NAME. Our services are not time limited, our staff is multi-lingual and services offered are flexible and per the client's needs. We are able to meet clients in a variety of locations (as long as it is safe and the domestic violence abuser is not present). Our Community Program also holds weekly hours at the Cambridge Housing Authority.
Some residents living in AGENCY NAME rental housing do not realize the severity of their situation until it is too late. The process for eviction prevention can take weeks or months to preserve a household’s tenancy.  While we outreach to those who are at risk, some households to not choose to participate for multiple reasons: people think they don’t need help, some households are skeptical of services offered, some households do not realize the severity of their situation.