Lack of housing resources and stable, living wage jobs at reasonable hours with in reasonable commuting parameter.  We try to connect clients, but there are so few options.
The great increase in rents in Greater Boston have put a premium on units, which leads to more potential leases not being renewed. Landlords also are sometimes quicker to evict someone-- the prospect of a higher-paying tenant may be seductive. Proposed restrictions by MassHealth on the use of PCAs may also destabilize households-- the PCA program is a vital service enabling thousands of people with disabilities to live independently in their own home.
We have identified several institutional and environmental challenges impeding our ability to provide homelessness prevention services. These include a lack of affordable housing for those households that need to move; limited SNAP benefits causing much of the household budget to go for food costs; social security benefits have not kept pace with the cost of living; and the cost for utilities increases annually.
One of the greatest challenges confronting Homeless Prevention programming is the lack of affordable housing on the North Shore and in Boston. Rents have skyrocketed in Lynn, for example, which used to be an affordable community to place individuals in. Economic development in both Lynn and Boston threatens residents on the farthest economic margins of the community, who are being priced out of the area. Additionally, AGENCY NAME continues to experience funding decreases in the area of direct client assistance, which makes it difficult to militate against eviction and utilities terminations.
Some of the challenges include:  1. A lack of internal resources (computers within the shelters for participants to conduct housing & job searshes )  2. A lack of community resources to sustain families  3. A lack of access to subsidized housing for permanent placement  4. A lack of funding to provide incentives to participants as a way of keeping them engaged
The low turnover of units again plays a part by limiting our ability to serve the volume of needy applicants. This low turnover itself speaks to a challenge borne of the current "public services" arena itself. Namely, the fact that the services provided are not delivered in a way with long term, continuous progression, "wrap-around" style design; a design which allows for all service providers to understand the client's journey as it relates to a "whole life" improvement as well as ensuring accountability on the part of both providers and clients.  A second challenge to homeless prevention is the fact that no new "deep subsidy" housing programs exist for low-income households anymore, except Section 8 vouchers.  The lack of federal funding for the creation/construction of new Section 8 units is a formidable challenge.  Finally, in our foreclosure prevention work, we find a significant amount of time is wasted due to obsolete contact listings among many lending institutions. Too often our staff sends information/documents to the contact listed only to find out later that this contact is no longer with the organization or no longer handles the particular activity. This, of course, lengthens the entire process; a process which is often deadline based.
We continue to see cuts in state funding translated into a decrease in services that some people need to remain in their home.
1) FY 16 was our first with only one full time foreclosure prevention counselor. As expected, with a reduced staff came a reduction in the quantity of work we were able to do. However, we feel strongly that the quality of our work has not been compromised.     2) General high cost of housing, both in terms of home ownership an renting, is still a factor for many of the clients we work with.  Of particular note were significant increases in property assessments, resulting in increased property taxes and by extension higher monthly mortgage payments. Oftentimes, these increases are passed onto renters, who've seen the median rents in metropolitan Boston soar of the past 2-4 years.     3) Limited resources, particularly in the area of being able to provide rental assistance to those in need.
The rising housing costs in the Merrimack Valley area make it difficult  for families to afford their housing units after HomeBASE assistance ends. This is especially true for the poorest families with we serve.
lack of reliable/public transportation  - high market rents  - social stigma for those holding housing assistance vouchers  - long waitlist for daycare vouchers
The lack of affordable housing in Boston remains the single largest challenge our agency faces in  helping families obtain permanent housing. Our case managers and housing specialists work  intensively with each client family to ensure that clients take every possible step to obtain suitable  permanent housing, including applying for rental assistance or housing subsidies, increasing income  in order to afford rent and, in cases where it is appropriate, looking outside of the Boston area for  housing.    With regard to homelessness prevention efforts in particular, the reduction in funding across all  channels for direct cash assistance for prevention has limited our ability to have a large-scale  impact in this area. We are working to address this shortage through private fundraising, and we have met with a significant amount of success in doing so over the past year.     Recognizing the current limitations, AGENCY NAME has redoubled our stabilization and  counseling-based prevention efforts, working with each family to address all barriers to housing  stability and ensuring that our case managers are aware of all outside resources available to families  who require direct cash assistance.    Recognizing the low stock of affordable housing in the city, AGENCY NAME is also working to  increase our own stock of affordable housing through the HOMES program. As part of our 100th anniversary campaign, we are in the process of adding four additional units to this program, and hopes to have a total of at least 13 units before the end of the year.
The continuing high volume of need for these services that were beyond AGENCY NAME's staffing resources during the grant year, making it necessary to turn away clients that are eligible for our services.  Two attorneys in the Housing Unit who worked to keep low--income clients and their families in permanent, affordable housing left AGENCY NAME during the first half of the reporting period.  Their departure led to a further redistribution of open cases among remaining staff in the unit and a further reduction in the number of cases AGENCY NAME is able to take.
The Financial Assistance program is administered by a sister agency - CTI in Lowell. We have virtually no control over the amount of money allocated to AGENCY NAME clients. In addition, when a family faces homelessness, the ability to find another apartment due to a lack of affordable units is a barrier to assisting clients with securing that type of housing.  Lastly, the lack of affordable housing units leads to extended periods of homelessness, which contributes to an increase in other isk factors for our clients.
On an institutional level, AGENCY NAME is concerned about inadequate resources for upstream homelessness prevention. On a state level, the RAFT (Residential Assistance For Families in Transition) Program has made a massive impact on family homelessness prevention efforts over the last several years and is a critical resource. However, RAFT can only be utilized for homelessness prevention if the tenant is at the state of a court summons and complaint. There are many households who are actively seeking services who have only received a pre-court notice to quit, and anecdotally we are starting to see signs that some landlords may be bringing their tenants to court solely for the purpose of making them eligible for financial assistance.
A common environmental challenge is the lack of quality affordable housing available for families with a limited income. Apartments in the Greater Boston area have a significantly higher Real Market Rent than what is considered “Fair Market Rent” for an area. However, Fair Market Rent is the level at which government rental subsidies will reimburse for apartment rentals. In addition, many rental fees do not include utilities, a significant variable for families with limited income and agencies with limited housing subsidy budgets. Furthermore, it is increasingly difficult to find apartments that are certified de-leaded, as required for subsidized units housing children under the age of 12 years in Massachusetts.    Another barrier for families seeking housing is that, for families with limited income, public transportation is a vital necessity. Families are often unable to consider apartments that are farther from city centers, and therefore public transportation. Housing that is closer to city centers and public transportation is often more expensive.    Furthermore, AGENCY NAME has partnered with other local agencies and municipalities to bring housing court and the Tenancy Preservation Program to its local communities—Malden, Revere, Chelsea, and Everett. Housings courts and programs like TPP, like those available in Boston and other communities, provide more specialized resources and services that help secure rights and help families remain securely in their homes. This effort also did not make it into MA’s 2017 state budget.
Foreclosures have certainly declined over the past few years; however, there are still many in our community that need assistance. We’ve been working with the Registrar of Deeds to alert individuals/families of our coaching services. We continue to market the program with flyers throughout the neighborhood and ‘guest’ appearances on a local radio show.  We held a Foreclosure Assistance Workshop on Tuesday, June 7th as part of AGENCY NAME Week and in partnership with the SUN initiative of Boston Community Capital. While attendance was small, we did hear from some clients who had been unresponsive for awhile.
While advocates will apply families for rental assistance through the RAFT program or refer them to HomeBASE but there are times when either families aren’t eligible or need additional financial assistance beyond what is offered through these programs.  In addition, there is not an equivalent program to provide financial assistance to individuals.   The AGENCY NAME has been advocating for the expansion of the RAFT program to include individuals as well as families with dependent children.  Advocates contact other non-profits searching for rental assistance for clients, but it is difficult to find agencies that consistently have funding available.  Sometimes clients do not fit the eligibility requirements to receive funding from outside agencies.  Even after helping clients to maximize their incomes, there are times when monthly income is less than monthly rent making it difficult to retain housing without some form of subsidy.  Clients are unable to afford to pay increasing rents even after their income increases.  The slightest decrease in work hours leads to falling behind in rent which can snowball leaving clients falling further behind.  Once clients fall too far behind, the only resource available to them is the emergency shelter program.  Rents have been rising in MA due to the low vacancy rates.  Some tenants receive notice that their landlord in increasing the rent and they are unable to afford the new monthly rent.  They may be on wait lists for affordable housing, but it still takes time to get into affordable housing.
AGENCY NAME continues to be able to provide high quality homelessness prevention services. However, there are many institutional and environmental challenges which have been making it very difficult to attain the targeted outcome numbers for this reporting area this year, although this target should be met next year, due to our obtaining a new contract with the MA Attorney General's Office in foreclosure prevention as of 7/1/16, as they have told us that they have over 500 foreclosure prevention clients for us. AGENCY NAME continues to have high success numbers in its foreclosure prevention programming.    We would like to note that if we were to add in the number of clients whose homes have been retained affordably due to our no-cost home repair programming for Boston disabled and senior homeowners, that would increase our production outcomes number for this measure from 469, at 85%, to 531, or 97%, of goal. We didn't do so above, as we had not originally included that program in our projected target numbers.     Here are some of the many outside challenges in achieving high successful homelessness prevention outcomes in our region:     1. While foreclosure petitions increased last year, funding for this work is decreasing, in general.    2. For our Rental Housing Counseling, as noted, the biggest issue remains the ever-rising costs of rent in and around East Boston. As rents increase, lower-income clients simply cannot remain in their homes. In addition, the number of clients who are evicted by their landlords due to 'gentrification' is rising. Landlords either sell the building outright; or evict the clients so that they can 'rehab' the units and then charge a higher rent. When this occurs, and we are not able to help clients retain their apartment homes, many of our low-income clientele simply cannot find affordable replacement housing in East Boston/Boston, their neighborhood of choice. NB: AGENCY NAME is spearheading a new partnership program with other concerned East Boston entities (the East Boston Acquisitions Program), to purchase and retain triple-deckers and other small multi-families as they go on the market so that their current occupants can keep their current housing; and we are just purchasing our first building now.    A 2/14/16 'Boston Globe' article ("Eastie in the Middle") notes that "Data from the real estate database Zillow show the median monthly rent in Eastie has climbed more than 40 percent in four years, reaching $2,255 in December 2015". AGENCY NAME sees nearly 100 residents each year who do not make enough to afford to continue to live in East Boston, in their home neighborhood. As the Globe article indicates, this not only impacts affordable housing, but family/children stability. For instance, in East Boston, over the prior 8+ years or so, instances of MS-13 gang violence had been going down. However, now, there have been four deaths of local teens in the last year or so, reported to be caused by MS-13 members; and local recruiting by the gang has gone up. One of our staff members lives in the Maverick Street housing development with her two young boys; and she constantly reports hearing gun shots and seeing suspicious behavior (appearing to be drug sales). NB: AGENCY NAME continues to host our Summer Schoolyard Program for seven weeks each summer, as well as our children's soccer program and teen Youth Leadership program to help work with East Boston's children, serving 230 in 2015.    3. A severe, debilitating, lack of public subsidies and multi-year wait lists for public housing and Section 8s.    4. A continuing gap between the wages of the lower earners in the economy and the highest earners.
Lack of affordable rental units continues to be a challenge for our client population.  According to a recent survey conducted by NH Housing, our state's available residential rental vacancy rate fell again over the past year to 1.5%, with the median rent for a 2-bedroom apartment with utilities being $1,206.  Vacancy rates in Rockingham County were below 2% and lower than the county's 2015 rate, suggesting that there is a need for new for additional rental units in this region.  At the same time, there has been a 15% increase in rents across the state.  For further information on the study go to: http://www.nhhfa.org/assets/pdf/RentSurvey.pdf.
Skyrocketing rents are the single biggest environmental challenge to finding and sustaining housing in Boston.  Rents are dramatically increasing, even in Dorchester, Roxbury, and Mattapan.  Common market rates exceed rent ceilings based on AMI and even with rental voucher amounts.    The waiting list for project-based vouchers is 2-5 years, and up to 10 years years for a mobile vouchers.  Many waiting lists are closed.  Even those displaced by fire must wait an average of six months to a year despite their priority one status.    In addition, because of the strong housing market, many apartments are being turned into condos, displacing many longtime tenants, including rental voucher holders.     Despite CORI reform, individuals with CORIs continue to face barriers accessing subsidized housing.
Rents in the Greater Boston area continue to rise rapidly and are now increasing in the Dorchester and Roxbury neighborhoods that Project Hope serves. This is making it more and more difficult for low- and moderate-income families to be able to afford to stay in their homes and in the communities they grew up in.
The lack of affordable and subsidized housing makes it very difficult to assist our clients so there needs to be an increase in the creation of such project based units. More mobile vouchers would also help, but the allowable rent amounts set for mobile vouchers need to increased to more properly reflect the true rents being paid in the area. Due to the high rents in the area, even when we are given one time or short term rental assistance it often is not sufficient as clients need the ongoing help only a subsidy can provide. In addition, there is a lack of resources to fund prevention services.
The Seacoast of New Hampshire continues to have less and less affordable housing. This proves to be a challenging aspect to secure long term housing.
Lack of affordable housing in our service area and long waiting lists for subsidized housing continue to be a problem.  Motivating families to participate in financial literacy activities to improve their financial management habits is an on-going challenge.
There are no institutional or environmental changes that would make it difficult to provide high quality prevention services.   However, if particular regulations around certain types of  funding were to be changed then that may lead to changes.  Ideally, AGENCY NAME would like to assist those at risk of homelessness due to non payment by being allowed by our funding sources to pay arrears to landlords in graduated monthly rent installments.  Currently, our funding sources mandate that we have to pay arrears in full in one payment up front as opposed to negotiating a payment plan with landlords and tenants.   Our experience is that agency arrears monthly installment payments to landlords has direct correlation to tenants continuing to pay their rent on time and incentivizes them to continue to work on housing stability issues with their case managers.
Our agency is well suited to quickly and accurately assess the situation of those currently housed to best gauge what stopgaps need to be employed in order to keep them safely housed. For those those who are currently homeless we're able to supply supports that may include housing them in a hotel room until a better snapshot can be taken of the situation. In this case towns, local financial resources, faith-based partners, and other community partners will be tapped to try to wrap around the family/individual.    The challenge, as always, is the amount of discretionary funding with which to support the family/individual during the time of assessment as well as the number of staff available to give as much time as is sometimes necessary.
There are instances where not enough funds are available to prevent someone from losing their housing - the debt owed to the landlord may be too high or by the time they get to us the landlord is not willing to negotiate a settlement.
According to the City of Boston’s 2014-2015 Foreclosure Trends, published in May 2016, there was an average 31% increase in foreclosure petitions and a 25% increase in foreclosure deeds citywide.  In Dorchester and Hyde Park, the top two neighborhoods where our clients reside, foreclosure petitions, the indicators of the need for services, comprised of 43% of the entire City’s petitions and 50% of our intake clientele.    The foreclosure prevention environment has changed dramatically in 2016.  It is now more difficult to achieve positive outcomes because each case takes longer to complete and as a result, each counselor has an increased caseload because of the extended period of time needed to achieve a positive outcome.  Many of the homeowners we are currently seeing have failed to keep their prior loan modifications and are now seeking second and third applications.  New Massachusetts rules mandate that banks apply the Net Present Value (NPV) test for all applications.  The banks are not required to modify the loans for homeowners who fail the NPV test.  Many homeowners are failing because their property values are rising, they are no longer under water and it is now more profitable for banks to foreclose.