Faith Based practice
My parents introduced my sisters and I to volunteering at an early age. We saw that there were a lot of families and children not as lucky as we were just by luck of birth. Makes you want to do better.
There is so much going on in this world and around us and it is good to know that we can make a change, bringing life and positivity to the negativities we see. To know that whoever we are, we can do our part in healing our world and communities. Even if it is at first a small-scale help, this is the first step towards gaining experience so that in the future, we can be more capable of making larger-scale impact. I am on this road, and being on this road motivates me to continue volunteering :-)
I first joined boston cares when I broke up with an old boyfriend lol. I needed to get out of the house. Now I do it for the reasons I mentioned above. 
My willingness to share my gifts and talents to my community and the greater Boston area.
The future for young children 
I'm semi-retired, with a flexible work schedule and a desire to help.
Always been passionate about giving back to the community and helping when I'm able. 
As an immigrant - volunteering at a local hospital acquainted me to the English language and culture. 
I have always been aware of advantages afforded to me as a student who has been educated solely in the private sector. I have been awarded scholarships and financial aid and know first hand the benefits of sharing and opportunity 
Despite the daily grind and just making ends meet I have grown up privileged relatively speaking and I want to give back.
I believe that all the turmoil in the world is caused by a society that is progressing towards a very narrow and selfish life view.  Volunteering helps me to put positivity and growth into the world, and as an added bonus, opens my eyes to the kindness that exists in the community outside of volunteering.  Overall I believe it breeds a more positive community and makes me a better person, better equipped to bring joy and assistance to the world.
I am an iternational student from Pakistan. Back in home country I am a member of Society Rehabilitation and Development Program (SRDP) and Alfalah Social Welfare &Development Organization which both are social welfare organizations and we do volunteer work for our community under the umbrella of the said organizations.
I used to be a teacher and have a strong interest in education, so the tutoring projects are particularly interesting to me.
I believe it's everyone's job to create a better world. 
For me to be alive, I didn't pay anything so why not share my time for a good purpose.
retired and would like to give back
It just feels right
I believe in giving back
I just want to be the best person possible, and love that Boston Cares makes it easy to find fun volunteer opportunities around the community.  I originally joined because I was new to Boston and it was a great way to meet people. I continue to volunteer with Boston Cares because it is a great organization and connects me to many unique opportunities I would not have found otherwise.
Provide a sense of helping the less fortunate in society
I want to learn about volunteer's culture in Boston specifically, then I want to expand this culture to my country in Indonesia, because it is very good thing to involving the society to work together for their own society
I was raised that giving back is an important part of personal growth.
With so much injustice, bigotry, hate in the world today, volunteering gives me an opportunity to see the good side of humanity and gives me hope for the world. It relaxes me that I am proving to be useful to someone whether they know me or not. 
just knowing I'm helping someone
I just want to help the needy.
I feel I am privileged and it is my civic duty to help those less fortunate.
I feel like its my mission, sort of, to give back, and help out in the community, as i have been fortunate, people have helped me,  i guess the altruism really makes me feel good too, like I've contributed,  but in this society there are no great communal ties, and strong family ties, like some other countries,where family and community take care of each other,  Feel strongly i want to continue volunteering,  like its my calling
Giving back through difficult losses and wanting to make a difference in the lives of others. 
I believe it's important to give back and to help those who are less fortunate.
I live a pretty cushy life. I don't work other than caring for my kids but need things to give a sense of purpose and stay busy, and enjoy the opportunity also to talk to othe volunteers and learn about the organizations where I volunteer 
My previous experience as an AmeriCorps member has helped motivate me to learn about and serve my community.
I think it is very imp to give back. As I can't give much monetary charities I feel my time and effort should help.
I just enjoy helping people and it feels really good after knowing that I gave back to the community. 
Volunteering is part of my call as a Christian
I believe we need to help one another. Doing good works promotes a healthy, vibrant society.
I'm a teacher and want to continue to help others after work hours
I think giving back is an important part of realizing how fortunate you are to have what you have.
I am lucky enough to be living with little hardship, and I should give back the positive things I have gotten throughout my life. 
People have helped me in various ways through life, and it makes a difference.  Life is better when we help each other out.
lifetime personal experience/struggle with trusting others, and anxiety...   the desire and need to be more comfortable and effective and make a major difference in the world...
My family's emphasized it since I was a kid, and it's usually a good time.
It feels like the world is all out of balance.  Maybe volunteering here and there helps tip things into a better balance.  I like exploring new things, see how things work and learn about my world.  I like the exercise!
Satisfaction 
I have a service spirit to help when the need arise.
Public service
I enjoy making a positive difference for nonprofit organizations and the people they serve.
The fact that I am privileged. I believe it's my duty as a privileged person to use the time I've been afforded in life to help those who don't have that luxury.
Being retired helps!
My parents always taught my brother and me to give back to those less fortunate than me. I've been volunteering since being a Girl Scout. I've just recently started volunteering more because I have a little more time now. I prefer to help urban youth, social justice, and women's issues.
Growing up, I learned that it is good to give back to others and going through every day life, I see many things that can be changed for the better. Volunteering allows me the opportunities to make influence these changes, even thought they may be only small steps. 
I'm new to Boston and currently unemployed as I wait for my Employment Authorization Document.
I get significant satisfaction from giving to others and helping in ways that they find valuable 
I have been blessed. Currently unemployed so makes more time to volunteer.  Getting close to retirement so would like to find an interest for when I am fully retired.
I really do not have anything to add to what I have checked off above in #38 "Why do you volunteer?"
I am extremely fortunate to have financial means and a family support system.  I want to help those who don't have these things that I often take for granted.
giving back
I FIRMLY BELIEVE EVERYONE WHO IS CAPABLE OF VOLUNTEERING SHOULD DO SO.  IN MY MIND WE EACH HAVE A RESPONSIBILITY TO HELP OTHERS AND MAKE THE WORLD WE LIVE IN A BETTER PLACE.  WE CANNOT SIMPLY RELY ON GOVERNMENT AND/OR PRIVATE PHILANTHROPY TO MAKE IT HAPPEN.
I was fortunate to have had a happy upbringing and currently have a nice life.  I have time to spend a few hours a week to ease the role of those who work in non-profit and/or those who depend on the services.
As my work schedule has become more flexible, I have time that I would like to put to producuctive use.
Life is not all about making money but what you give to those who cannot pay you back.
I was adopted, I want to help other like me.
I have volunteered since high school
I've been given a lot by others. 
The golden rule
I have a chronic illness that limits my ability to work and go to college. Being ill has changed my worldview and made me very grateful for the gifts I've been given. Education and books should be available to everyone, regardless of their circumstances. That is why I love the Prison Book Program. Volunteering allows me to give my time when I have the energy. It's flexible, allows me to meet people, and I truly enjoy it and feel responsible to give back to this great world of ours!
Retirement-Looking for something meaningful
I enjoy it.  My daughter enjoys it and needs a ride to sites, so we do it together.  We especially care about families, healthcare, nutrition/food support.
I want to teach my kids to think of others
To empower other to help those less fortunate than themselves.
I am fortunate to be in a good position in my life and since I have the time and energy to help others, I do!
I am a Site Director for an AmeriCorps program. My members motivate me to volunteer and find more volunteer opportunities for them to do together.
no
helping people
A big part of volunteering is staying in touch with reality.  I live in a sheltered bubble 98% of the time, volunteering exposes me to parts of the community that I would not see otherwise.  The world has so much diversity, and we experience so little of it.
I started when I was in AmeriCorps- it was free to do the training and I think I could count the hours.
I believe that to have a better world we all need to contribute to this goal.
I have volunteered my whole life - starting as a kid playing with other kids at a homeless shelter.
I volunteer because it's empowering to do something for other people. I have the ability to make the world a better place and I can use it.
Christ
doing my share
I work with volunteers at my job and like to remain involved in volunteering myself to help better serve them. 
My career of over 30 years in healthcare brings me the desire to help
Just the reasons shown in question No 37
It could be me needing help someday
I used to be a Volunteer Leader in Los Angeles, and volunteering has always been a big part of my life
"I am in between careers and have extra time to volunteer this year. I feel I have more than enough than I need to live a satisfied life and wish more people had more opportunities."
I always have (since childhood tutoring younger kids when in high school, also in Girl Scouts). My parents always have and still do into their 80s.
Personal experience - I've had a lot of people help me over the years in ways that changed the course of my life, and made some horrible times more bearable. It's my hope to do that for others and honor those who helped me, albeit indirectly, along the way. 
not particularly
I grew up happy and healthy with everything necessary provided. I know others are not as lucky so I want to do my part to help others. 
Teaching and tutoring in math is my personal way to pay tribute to my late father who was a well respected professor in math and the sciences. I try to pass on a little bit of what he taught me over the course of my life re: math / logic.
It is an opportunity to give back. It's also nice to be social while involved in a structured activity.
I'm a French mother. We are here for three years and I want my children and me to be involved in the American society. I think volonteers are a great part of American culture. I want my children to be used to help others and not just giving money.
My girlfriend
Making a difference
I wouldn't be where I am without the help of others, I believe in paying it forward 
It's something I've been doing since I was very young.
I used to do this with my mom when I was younger and living at home
I'm a completely non-religious person.  I volunteer because doing good for others stands on its own and does not rely on religious beliefs. 
